
time of day and days of week such as weekends and holidays. Cities may employ noise abatement inspectors to enforce noise guidelines. However, proving noise variance when
code violations occur isn’t easy with existing methods. Frustrated residents end up calling local bylaw enforcement or
noise control officers. However, without any proof of code
violation there’s not much a noise control officer can do.
There is both objective and subjective evidence for the
evidence of non-auditory effects of noise on health and wellbeing which are caused by exposure to noise [13]. Exposure
to levels above 40 dB(A) begins to influence well being and
levels above 60 dB(A) are considered detrimental to health.
There is good evidence, largely from laboratory studies, that
noise exposure impairs performance [8]. Noise exposure during sleep may increase blood pressure, heart rate and finger
pulse amplitude as well as body movements. There may
also be after-effects during the day following disturbed sleep;
perceived sleep quality, mood and performance in terms of
reaction time are all decreased following sleep disturbed by
noise [14].
In this paper we present Decibel.LIVE, a novel approach
to noise pollution monitoring using blockchain technology
and smartphones. Leveraging the decentralized nature of
the blockchain and the continuous climb in smartphone ownership and internet usage, we present an open and low-cost
platform to monitor noise pollution.

Noise pollution is one of the leading causes which adversely
affect the well-being and quality of life of residents in urban
areas. In this paper we present Decibel.LIVE, a blockchain
based decentralized platform to monitor urban noise and
compensate residents living around the noise sites. With the
Decibel.LIVE smartphone app, citizens can measure their
personal exposure to noise using smartphones as noise sensors and report excess noise to business owners responsible
for the noise sites over private encrypted channels. The
platform also implements a settlements infrastructure based
on blockchain technology which enables business owners to
compensate residents affected by noise in real-time. The
platform aggregates noise levels in a given region and presents
visual noise propagation models which can be used by communities and local noise enforcement officers to enforce noise
guidelines.

Noise is often described as unwanted sound which is unpleasant and disruptive to hearing. It affects quality of life
because it interferes with activities like sleep, relaxation,
conversation or listening to music, TV, radio or natural
sounds.
In recent decades, increases in population have also led to
increases in traffic, construction, demolition and other noise
Noise pollution is a common problem in urban environments,
affecting human behavior, health and even children’s cognitive development.
Typically, cities and towns have established guidelines on
noise levels allowed in residential areas. Local laws and bylaws may restrict general construction and other sources of
noise depending on the neighborhood, commercial zone.

This section summarizes noise measurement techniques
particularly environment noise. We review noise measurement techniques and tools to capture noise data.
Sound or noise is the result of pressure variations, or oscillations, in an elastic medium (e.g., air, water, solids), generated by a vibrating surface. Sound propagates in the form
of longitudinal waves, involving a succession of compressions
and rarefactions in the elastic medium [6]. Appendix A gives
a glossary of acoustic terminology.
As sound waves travel outward from the source, their
intensity (loudness) expressed as watts per square meter
(W/m2 ) steadily decreases due to several natural phenomena such as spreading with distance, absorption by the atmosphere and wind and temperature changes. In a free field,
the intensity and sound pressure at a given point, at a distance r (in meters) from the source, is expressed by [6]:for measuring exposure to noise.
LAeq,T is the equivalent continuous dB(A) level which has
the same energy as the original fluctuating noise for the same
given period of time T and is defined as [12]:
LAeq,T = 10log10 (

where ρ and c are the air density and speed of sound respectively.
From the preceding equation, if the sound pressure level,
Lm , is measured at some reference distance, rm , from the
noise source then the sound pressure level at some other
distance, r, may be estimated using [1].
Techniques for capturing noise levels

Techniques to monitor noise in urban areas vary based
on jurisdictions. Typically, noise measurements in urban
areas are carried out by designated officers or consultants
who collect data at a particular location using a sound level
meter or similar microphone-equipped device. However, the
measuring sessions take place only at few accessible spots
and during short time intervals (e.g., 30 minutes).
There are a number of limitations with such approaches.
Noise mapping campaigns are expensive due to need of expertise and human resources, the deployment of sound level
meter devices and the processing effort. Also, data collection at sparse locations and at specific times often produce
computational models with an unknown error margins.
=
It follows that in free field conditions, the noise level decreases by 6 dB each time the distance between the source
and the observer doubles (See Figure 1).
However, free-field conditions don’t exist in urban environments so, in general the equation relating sound pressure
level and sound power level is modified to account for the
presence of reflecting surfaces.
In the near field where distance from the source is equal
to about a wavelength of sound or equal to three times
the largest dimension of the sound source (whichever is the
larger), the sound field does not decrease by 6 dB each time
the distance from the source is increased (as it does in the
far field).
Our focus is the far field of a source which begins where
the near field ends and extends to infinity. This is the field
where the citizens affected by noise pollution reside. Note
that the transition from near to far field is gradual in the
transition region. In the far field, the direct field radiated
by most machinery sources will decay at the rate of 6 dB
each time the distance from the source is doubled. For line
sources such as traffic noise, the decay rate varies between
3 dB and 4 dB [6].


where pA (t) is obtained from applying A-weighting filter
to the raw acoustic signal p(t) and p0 is a standard reference value corresponding to the minimal audible acoustic
signal (20µP a in air). The raw acoustic signal p(t) is filtered
(A-weighting) to compute the relative loudness of sound as
perceived by the human ear. A weighting is (formally defined standards IEC 61672-1 and ANSI 1.43) in the analog
or frequency domain and converted to a time domain digital
filter, normally done with z-transform or bilinear transform.
Zero dB(A) is considered the point at which a person begins to hear sound[3]. A soft whisper at 1 meter measures at
30 dB(A), a busy freeway at 15 meters at around 80 dB(A),
and a chain saw can reach 110 dB(A) or more at operating
distance. Brief exposure to noise levels exceeding 120 dB(A)
without hearing protection may even cause physical pain.
Decibel.LIVE smartphone app implements filtering to produce dB(A) events.


Over the last few years, smartphone adoption has been
rising worldwide[10]. Modern smartphones have significant
computational power, always-on internet connectivity and
built-in sensors such as microphones, cameras, global positioning system (GPS) receiver, accelerometers, gyroscopes,
and proximity and light sensors making them as sensors
carried by humans rather than placed at static locations.
Smartphone developers now offer many sound measurement
applications that are accurate and reliable to be used to assess occupational noise exposures[7]. This has given rise to
a low-cost alternative to traditional large-scale, costly and
difficult to manage sensing infrastructure based on sensor
networks.
One such novel implementation is NoiseTube[9] which is
a mobile application platform that monitors noise pollution
involving the general public. Citizens measure their personal
exposure to noise in their everyday environment by using
GPS-equipped mobile phones as noise sensors. VANET[11]
takes a different approach by using a mesh network composed of mobile phones for detecting noise and transporting
noise data. These projects show that smartphones can be
used effectively as noise sensors to monitor noise pollution.

Measuring environmental noise dB(A)

The basic unit of measurement for environmental noise, as
recommended by ISO 1996/1, is the dB(A). Noise emission
limits are also usually expressed in dB(A). Noise levels may
be measured at any moment, but noise levels vary widely
with time, e.g., traffic noise is higher at noon than at midnight and higher still during the morning and evening rush
hours. Therefore a single dB(A) measurement isnt a very
good indicator of noise pollution. A much better indication
is a logarithmic average, LAeq,T which is the metric of choice. 
channels or to resolve disputes between the parties. Therefore state channels dramatically increase the transaction rate
while preserving all the benefits of the blockchain.
A state channel χP1 →P2 between two parties P1 and P2
is created on chain using a hashed time locked contract
CP reimage which acts as an escrow. A channel is initialized when party P1 creates a conditional commitment (a
micropayment or a bid etc.) by sending a hash h to preimage contract CP reimage such that h = H(σ) is the hash of a
secret string σ only known to party P1 . The channel is valid
until time TExpiry .
The state of the channel is concluded in one of three ways:

1

In the strictest sense, a blockchain is a type of database
that is shared across nodes geographically distributed in a
network. No single entity owns the data on a blockchain and
the design of a blockchain makes it infeasible to modify data
once it’s published on a public blockchain like Ethereum.
We have chosen Ethereum blockchain as the platform for
Decibel.LIVE service.

3.1

Why Ethereum?

For Decibel.LIVE, the primary use of blockchain is as a
shared public database. We want any user of Decibel.LIVE
to be able to submit a transaction to the blockchain. The
transaction propagates throughout the network and is eventually committed into a consistent ordered ledger.
Any party can view all the transactions committed on the
blockchain. If any party’s view includes a transaction tx,
then every party’s view will also include tx after a maximum time bound. We need a single time bound, ∆, which
bounds the maximum delay round trip time for a blockchain
transaction: if some party submits a transaction tx at time
T, then every party sees tx confirmed by time T + ∆.
Our choice of Ethereum as blockchain platform is due to
the following:

1) When party P1 closes the channel by sending a final
commitment and publishing the preimage σ to CP reimage .
2) When party P2 closes the channel by publishing the latest
commitment it received to CP reimage .
3) Or in case of a dispute when one or both parties are
not in agreement of the latest state of the commitment.
Typically parties establish dispute resolution policies and
may employ a arbiter contract.
We denote a state channel between two parties P1 and P2

1) Ethereum [15] is one of the biggest public blockchains
with over 6,000 full nodes running as of this writing [5].

as
commitment

2) Blocks are confirmed in a few seconds, typically around
15-17 seconds 2 .

where party P1 makes a commitment to party P2 an action
denoted by commitment (a micropayment or a bid etc.) by
publishing the preimage σ of hash h = H(σ) before time
TExpiry .

3) Ethereum also provides a Turing-complete language called
Solidity which is used to write smart contracts.
Smart contracts are programs which consist of data declarations and high-level functions. Users interact with a smart
contract by publishing a transaction containing a procedure
call, including the address of the contract, the name of the
function to invoke, and arguments to pass.
A user submits a transaction tx by paying a gas fee. The
gas price is the cost of executing the smart contract code on
Ethereum blockchain.


Decibel.LIVE is a synthesis of ideas presented in the previous two sections. The platform consists of two distinct
components:
1) Smartphone app to capture noise levels and store compensation transactions with the built-in wallet.

State Channels

While blockchains as distributed ledgers have proven to be
successful at low transaction volumes, scalability is a concern. As blocks are added to Ethereum blockchain every 12
seconds on average, the Ethereum transaction rate is slower
than that of a typical centralized database.
Also, storing every transaction in a smart contract can be
expensive due to the gas price.
State channels are a promising approach[2] addressing the
scaling problem by moving some of the transactions off chain,
while preserving the systems decentralized structure and
strong integrity guarantees.
Instead of submitting every transaction to the blockchain,
state channels employ the blockchain to first establish a
shared deposit between two parties. The parties interact
directly and communicate with the blockchain only to close

2) DApp (short for decentralized application) consists of:
a) a smart contract CDecibelLive .

3

b) Bel (ß), an ERC20 token built on top of Ethereum.
c) an API to interact with the smart contract on the
blockchain.
d) a mesh routing network to link and manage secure
off-chain channels.


The Decibel.LIVE app is available for free and can be installed on GPS equipped smartphones. A beneficiary uses
Decibel.LIVE app to monitor noise and send noise events
in JSON format to the initiator over the secure Telehash
channel.

1
The terms blockchain and distributed ledger are often
treated as synonyms in the industry even though blockchain
is a specific type of distributed ledger
2
https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/09/14/on-slow-and-fastblock-times/

3
Currently the contract is deployed on Ropsten Testnet at:
0XBD29DD4534F2DD0A8B5F4AA366A02451795FF09D

Gathering Noise Data

The Decibel.LIVE app collects five fields as shown in table 1 including benef iciaryId representing a beneficiary,
geolocation (lat, long) where noise sample was captured, the
noise level in dB(A) (db), and the time when the noise was
captured (timestamp). No additional information is captured.
The app measures the loudness level of the captured environmental sound at 22500 Hz, 16 bits/second at a chosen interval. The app contains a real-time signal processing
module which applies infinite impulse response (IIR) and
computes LAeq,T in dB(A) as the primary indicator of noise
pollution. IIR filters are used as they tend to mimic the
performance of traditional analog filters and make use of
feedback.
The app also takes into account two common noise indicators, Lnight and Lden which represent the equivalent sound
levels averaged over the night only (to assess sleep disturbance) and over the whole day, respectively.
These values on the A-weighted dB scale are used in the
payout settlement algorithm (see Algorithm 1).

Noise events collected on all secure channels are stored in
a local database and persisted on IPFS4 periodically. Events
are organized by noise contract and beneficiary:
/DecibelLIVE/{:deedId}/events/{:beneficiaryId}
Figure 2: Mesh network of secure channels connecting initiator, beneficiaries, and Preimage contract.

At any time, payout settlement can be verified using the
noise events and policies in any noise contract CNoise even
after the contract becomes inactive.


A beneficiary is any party (i.e., residents, other businesses) affected by noise originating from initiator’s noise
site. Every beneficiary is also assigned a wallet consisting
a secret-key sk0 , a public-key pk0 derived from the secret
key, and unique Ethereum address abenef iciary = (pk0 , sk0 )
constructed from the public-key.

The dApp consists of a smart contract which we denote
here as CDecibelLive and a web based API5 to provide read
and write access to the contract.
There are four types of identities in the Decibel.LIVE
platform that interact with CDecibelLive contract – Initiator,
Beneficiary, Noise Smart Contract and Contract Monitor.

CDecibelLive creates and deploys new noise smart contracts
on behalf of initiators. A noise contract which we denote as
CNoise encapsulates information about the noise site such as
the location (latitude and longitude coordinates), Ethereum.
confirmed by Decibel.LIVE as residents living within an area
of radius r meters from the noise site. Following are the
attributes of a noise contract.

An initiator is an individual or business responsible for
the noise site. Every initiator is assigned a wallet within the
Decibel.LIVE platform. The wallet consists of a secret-key
sk, a public-key pk derived from the secret key, and unique
Ethereum address ainitiator = (pk, sk) constructed from the
public-key.
An initiator creates a smart contract for monitoring
noise at a noise site.

A monitor is a local authority that wishes to monitor noise
at a particular site in real time. A monitor is also assigned
a wallet consisting of a key pair and unique Ethereum address amonitor = (pk00 , sk00 ) constructed from the public-key.
However, a monitor is a read-only observer in the system.

The DApp platform uses Bel token (ß), an ERC20-compliant
token built on top of Ethereum, as the unit of compensation
on the blockchain-based platform. Within Decibel.LIVE,
initiators define compensation policies using Bel tokens.
A beneficiary receives compensation in the form of Bel
tokens. Bels can exchanged on a crypto currency exchange
or can be reused on the platform.
The distribution of Bels and the token supply is determined by a smart contract deployed on Ethereum.



An initiator also declares incentives in the form of compensation when noise exceeds a certain threshold at certain
times during the day (or night) by hour(s) of day and day(s)
of week. Such payout policies are encapsulated in CNoise by
an initiator when a noise contract is created (see Table
2). When the contract becomes active, the policies can not
be changed.
The payout settlement algorithm (see Algorithm 1) evaluates every incoming noise event as per the payment policies
in a noise contract.

An initiator creates a noise contract by filling out a contract template from the web or mobile application. The platform uses an implementation of smart contract templates[4]
to create and deploy noise contracts. In essence, CDecibelLive
uses a creational pattern and acts as a factory to create new
instances of CNoise on behalf of an initiator. Following
method in CDecibelLive creates a new noise contract.

4.2.7

Noise Contract Expiration

A noise contract expires when endsAt>block.timestamp.
block is a built-in Solidity property and block.timestamp
gives the Unix timestamp of the latest block. Following
method in CNoise expires a noise contract 6 .

An initiator can abort a noise contract before it becomes active. Both web and mobile applications provide
means to abort a noise contract if it’s not yet in Active
state. The modifier inState(State.Created) ensures such
guarantees.

The modifier onlyDecibel ensures that new noise contracts can be created through CDecibelLive only by the Decibel.LIVE platform.

Currently the Decibel.LIVE platform invokes expire()
method using a scheduled job. In future versions, we plan on
using an Oracle service to execute methods at a scheduled
future time.

Decibel.LIVE uses Telehash7 , an encrypted mesh network
protocol for communication between the initiator and each
beneficiary. Telehash enables a completely distributed,
decentralized communication mechanism that doesn’t rely
on on centralized or federated servers.
When a noise contract CNoise becomes active, the initiator
and every beneficiary of the contract is assigned a unique
Telehash address known as a hashname. A hashname is a
32-byte string that corresponds to the SHA-256 hash of one
or more public keys. A link or a channel is created connecting the initiator to every beneficiary of the contract. All
messages exchanged on a channel are encrypted end-to-end
all of the time using forward secrecy.
CP reimage creates a new channel on behalf of an initiator
with an opening balance of ßb and hash h = H(σ) where
σ is secret chosen by the initiator. ßb is the maximum
amount the initiator is willing to pay while the contract is
active. The beneficiary joins the channel after confirming
the owner of the channel using ecrecover function in Solidity.

a) Joining the contract as beneficiaries when they
don’t reside within the contract zone It is feasible
that individuals might try to temporarily position themselves within the approved contract zone for the purpose
of joining and thus benefiting from the contract. The
incentives for doing this are minimal given that the individual(s) would need to be present within the contract
zone for a reasonable amount of time to benefit in any
substantive way. However, this possibility does need to
be considered and will be mitigated through authentication i.e. pre-issuing a unique passcode to each nearby
resident which must be entered to join the contract.

where r, s, v represents the signature of initiator’s transaction.
ßb

The Decibel.LIVE app captures loudness of noise on a
beneficiary’s smartphone, computes and sends LAeq,T events
in JSON format over this channel to the initiator. Each
noise event from a beneficiary is evaluated and if eligible, a payout commitment is sent from the initiator. The
beneficiary’s balance in the wallet is updated in real time.
A monitor may observe noise events events originating
from a site in real time by establishing a channel to the
initiator.

b) Artificially distorting noise readings to increase
payouts Individuals might try to increase the noise readings through a variety of techniques like pre-recording
the noise closer to the sound source and playing it back,
generating another noise source within their residence,
blowing into the microphone on their smartphone to increase the sound pressure etc. These techniques will be
mitigated through sophisticated analysis of sound snippets (short duration audio recordings of < 1sec taken at
periodic intervals) for those noise readings that are identified as statistical outliers. Options such as banning the
user for the duration of the contract or a fixed period of
time (e.g. 30 days) may also be considered. It is eventually planned that much of this process will automated
using AI.

The LAeq,T events are input into the payout settlement
algorithm (Algorithm 1). Each incoming event is checked
against the payout policies declared in the associated noise
contract. If an LAeq,T event is eligible for compensation, the
beneficiary’s balance is updated on the channel in realtime.
When the contract expires, the balances on the channel
are published on CDecibelLive permanently recording transfer
of funds.

Dishonest Actors and Gaming the System

There are a few ways in which dishonest actors might try
to game the system for their own financial benefit.


The degree to which data is accurate and reliable is the
biggest challenge of the application. To that end, Decibel.LIVE aims to ensure high accuracy of sensor data and
low probability of incorrect inputs from a dishonest actor.

c) Joining the noise contract multiple times This will
be resolved by allowing each resident to join the contract
once only using pre-authentication techniques described
above. In addition, GPS locations for noise readings will
need to correspond to the beneficiaries location essentially eliminating the ability for a resident to join/monitor the contract on behalf of another nearby resident but
all from their within the bounds of their own residence.


Prior to capturing noise levels, the smartphone app performs a set of calibrations. Data from an improperly calibrated smartphone is misleading and not useful. GPS modules in modern smartphones have a very high positioning
accuracy sufficient enough to calculate the distance from a
noise site. The app correlates GPS data with known information to determine the veracity of noise events.


In this paper we presented Decibel.LIVE, a noise monitoring and incentive platform which enables citizens monitor noise and report noise events to noise site owners on a
private encrypted channel. Site owners can define compensation policies based on the loudness of noise. Decibel.LIVE
helps citizens receive instant compensation from noise site
owners when noise exceeds thresholds defined by site owners.

the use of band limited digital or analog filters. The second
involves the use of Fourier analysis where the time domain
A. GLOSSARY
signal is transformed using a Fourier series. This is impleBlockchain A blockchain is an append-only distributed
mented in practice digitally (referred to as the DFT - digital
ledger of transactions. Transactions confirmed and verified
Fourier Transform) using a very efficient algorithm known
by multiple nodes (computers connected forming a blockchain
as the FFT (Fast Fourier Transform).
network with the task of validating and relaying transacHash function A hash function is a mathematical functions) are recorded as ”blocks” which are added in a linear,
tion that takes an input of any size and produces an output
chronological order with each blocking linking its predecesof fixed size.
sor forming a chain from the very first block. Each node
Impulse A signal can be decomposed into a group of
gets a copy of the blockchain, which gets downloaded autosimple additive components called impulses. Generally, an
matically upon joining the network.
impulse is a short-duration time-domain signal. A unit imDirect Field A direct field of a sound source is the area
pulse is a normalized impulse where sample number zero has
of the sound field which has not suffered any reflection from
a value of one, while all other samples have a value of zero.
any surfaces or obstacles.
A unit impulse is also known as a delta function and is deElastic Medium A substance or material (e.g., air , wanoted by δ(t) for continuous systems and δ[n] for discrete
ter) that can change its form as a result of a deforming force
systems.
but can return to its original form when the deforming force
Impulse Response Impulse response is the output signal
is removed. For example, a gas is an elastic medium as it
of a system when a delta function (unit impulse) is applied
can be compressed under pressure but will regain its former
as the input.
volume when the pressure is released.
Hashlock Hashlock is a type of restriction placed on a
ERC20 Token A de facto token standard to create digitransaction such that a user must provide the input string
tal assets one can purchase and own on the Ethereum blockchain. used to produce the hash which is part of the transaction.
The standard defines a set of function signatures such as
Oracle Oracles are special smart contracts that connect
send, register, delete, in the Ethereum contract ABI lana contract on the blockchain with outside datasources.
guage. Using the ERC20 token standards, crypto currency
Signals and Systems In digital signal processing, a sigexchanges, users and applications easily interact with each
nal is a description of how one parameter varies with another parameter. For e.g., voltage changing over time in an
other exchanging currency units, registering names, making
electronic circuit, or brightness varying with distance in an
offers on exchanges, and other similar functions.
image. A system is any process that produces an output
Free Field Free field is a region in space where sound
signal in response to an input signal. A system is called
may propagate free from any form of obstruction.
continuous if its input and output are continuous signals.
Frequency Analysis Frequency analysis is a process by
For e.g., a voltage depending on time: v(t). A system is
which a time varying signal in the time domain is transdiscrete if its input and output are discrete signals. For e.g.,
formed to its frequency components in the frequency doa stock price measured by day: p[d].
main. There are two ways of transforming a signal from the
Transaction A message from a user to be recorded on
time domain to the frequency domain. The first involves
the blockchain.