Blockchain in Financial Markets:
How to Gain an Edge
By taking a systematic approach, companies can manage
through the uncertainty surrounding distributed ledger
technology—and achieve a strategic advantage.

With all the noise surrounding distributed ledger technology (DLT), you’d expect participants in ﬁnancial markets to be racing full-bore to get ready for it. But many
are not. Part of the reason is concern about the scope
and cost of the challenge. Presented almost daily with
new claims about blockchain’s disruptive and revolutionary potential, many executives have begun to wonder how much beneﬁt they’ll actually see from DLT in
the near, or even medium, term.

Nonetheless, it is hard to predict exactly when and
where DLT applications will reach scale and what kind
of impact they will have across markets. It’s unclear
how the regulatory environment will evolve in different
jurisdictions. Getting ready for DLT requires substantial
investment at a time when many ﬁrms are facing ﬁnancial
constraints, and it can involve working through tricky and
expensive issues with legacy IT systems and processes.

Business leaders now confront a seemingly impossible
and contradictory situation. They’re dealing with a technology that has been simultaneously overhyped and
underestimated. While DLT is making inroads into some
areas of banking, such as cross-border remittances, the
path to implementation across broad and diverse ﬁnancial markets is less clear.

Financial executives interviewed by Bain say they are
under pressure to show near-term results, and they must
gain the attention, understanding and commitment of
top management. Some ﬁrms have embraced the technology, while others have opted to do nothing, or very
little, given all the uncertainties about DLT. “Everyone
is struggling with business cases and exactly where
to apply their efforts,” said one executive Bain interviewed. Among the market participants Bain surveyed,
38% said they’ve adopted a wait-and-see approach to
the technology.
Financial market participants know DLT is coming. About
80% of executives at ﬁnancial institutions surveyed by
Bain & Company believe DLT will be transformative and

Other ﬁrms are deliberately trying to slow some things
down, not just for themselves, but for the whole industry. Some companies have an incentive to try to preserve the status quo—and their place in it—for as long
as possible. One senior executive Bain interviewed
who represented his ﬁrm on a blockchain consortium
working group said, “Half of the people in the group
are looking for a solution; the other half are there
uniquely to obstruct progress.”

For companies considering the use of DLT, an important
ﬁrst step is to establish a clear view of the technology
and the scope of its likely impact on the market. Once a
company has a perspective on how DLT is likely to evolve
in the areas in which it does business, it can develop a systematic approach and a multiyear roadmap to manage
the uncertainty to its advantage.
DLT is likely to arrive ﬁrst in those markets that are
“primed” for it. DLT-ready jurisdictions include those
in Asia-Paciﬁc and Latin America that have a centralized and integrated infrastructure run by a single exchange and a proactive regulator who can work together to drive innovation.

Sizing up DLT opportunities: The use cases
and market archetypes
In this kind of competitive landscape, where some
ﬁrms have invested aggressively, others struggle with
near-term business cases and still others resist change,
companies willing to be proactive and strategic can gain
an edge. These ﬁrms understand the need to be ready to
take advantage of a potentially revolutionary technology,
one that may upend a broad array of ﬁnancial activities.

Markets are likely to develop into four distinct archetypes, each with distinct implications for how and when
individual ﬁrms should adopt DLT (see Figure 3).
First, in large, complex, but mostly domestic markets
such as Japan and China, DLT is more likely to reinforce a relatively integrated structure for cash securities.
By contrast, DLT may have the opposite effect in the second archetype, large ﬁnancial hubs, such as the US and
major European markets. In these jurisdictions, DLT
could foster an even more unbundled and fragmented
market structure, with multiple exchanges and utilities.

The ﬁnancial executives surveyed by Bain expect DLT
to have a big impact on ﬁnancial markets—particularly
on those activities that take place after a trade is made.
In the Bain survey, 81% said they expected DLT’s impact
on clearing and settlement to be “transformative.”
In the same survey, 49% said they have entered into
partnerships with other ﬁrms, often ﬁntech start-ups,
to develop DLT projects, and 32% have joined an industry
consortium. Roughly one-third of the ﬁrms are conducting small, isolated experiments in particular locations
or asset classes—an innovation lab approach. Some
have carved out niches where they can invest a modest
amount in DLT and pursue an early, if limited, return
on their investment.

Among the four archetypes, it is the third one—smaller,
domestically focused markets like Australia, Canada
and Brazil—where DLT could have the earliest impact
in cash securities. These markets, which are already
integrated and centralized, face fewer obstacles than
the other archetypes. They can evolve holistically, with
participants and regulators working closely together.
The fourth archetype—small markets with international connections, including Singapore and Hong
Kong—is likely to remain integrated for cash securities
but more subject to global market practices and links
in derivatives and OTC.

With DLT, the ledger has one shared and constantly
updated version of the truth, changing the need for a
central intermediary. DLT generates a secure, immutable historical record and a full audit trail. There are
many potential use cases for DLT along the ﬁnancial
could be based on actual traded spot transactions rather
than surveys—a development that would be of keen
interest to asset managers.

Across jurisdictions, DLT has the potential to transform settlement and clearing. While a trader can now
execute a transaction at lightning speed, it can take as
long as three days for that transaction to settle. With
DLT, execution, clearing and settlement could occur
simultaneously, minimizing liquidity and credit risks.
This move from net to gross settlement, however,
would require signiﬁcant changes in the mechanics of
funding and represents one of the biggest questions
facing the use of DLT.

Beyond trading, DLT has the potential to change the way
ﬁrms interact with their clients in areas such as proxy
voting, digital identity management and Know Your
Customer (KYC). Broadridge, a global leader in proxy
communication services, invested $135 million to acquire the technology assets of Inveshare. Broadridge is
using that technology to help make US proxy voting become more efﬁcient, secure and transparent. The state
of Delaware, where many US companies are registered,
is working on legislation that would allow the issuance
of digital shares using DLT and smart contracts. The
Monetary Authority of Singapore is sponsoring the formation of a KYC utility. Using DLT, banks can embed
KYC information required by regulators into the record
of a transaction, avoiding costly duplication of efforts.
A KYC utility, by lowering and mutualizing the cost of
compliance, can eliminate barriers of entry, making
KYC affordable for new, smaller participants.

Certain asset classes and activities are ripe for early
DLT adoption. Among the most promising areas are
complex OTC derivatives, such as renewable energy
contracts. These markets have a relatively small number
of participants, making it easier to reach a consensus
on systems and policies. Because volumes are relatively low, less investment is required—especially in replacing legacy IT—so the risks are contained.
Several DLT projects focused on these types of products
are well under way. Euroclear and Paxos have piloted a
blockchain settlement service for gold bullion trading
in London, which they plan to roll out in 2017. The
Royal Mint and CME Group have also announced plans
to launch a blockchain-based gold trading platform this
year. In the US, NASDAQ is using DLT on its Private
Market platform to help with the issuance, transfer and
management of private company securities.

All told, DLT has the potential to signiﬁcantly beneﬁt
ﬁnancial markets. Bain research estimates annual cost
and capital savings could amount to 1 to 3 basis points
of total global assets under management, or about
$15 billion–$35 billion. Much of these savings will
come from the ability of firms to replace manual,
redundant and error-prone processing methods. Firms
will also be able to quickly and less expensively harness
reference data that is both richer in detail and more
fully reconciled. That should create opportunities for
growth and product innovation.

The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC)
and a consortium that includes IBM, Axoni and R3
have successfully tested a system using DLT and smart
contracts to manage post-trade services in the $11 trillion
OTC market for cleared and bilateral credit derivatives.

The gains from DLT won’t be evenly distributed. In
some cases, DLT will enable some ﬁrms to become
more efﬁcient and increase proﬁtability, but in other
cases these productivity gains may not boost margins.
As with any cost-reduction initiative, exchanges, banks,
securities ﬁrms, asset managers and other intermediaries will face competitive pressure to pass the savings
on to their customers, meaning the main beneﬁciaries
of DLT efﬁciencies are likely, ultimately, to be issuers
and end-investors. In fact, the executives surveyed by

DLT can also play a role in improving reference data, including benchmark interest rates like Libor and physical
commodity prices, replacing existing survey processes
that are opaque and subject to abuse. With a DLT-based
benchmark-setting mechanism, possibly administered
by an industry-wide utility, data from spot transactions
could be directly captured. This means reference prices
to embrace DLT, they run the risk of being left behind.
“No one wants to be ﬁrst,” said one executive Bain interviewed, “but no one wants to be last either.” This dilemma
is exacerbated by the fact that the biggest impact from
DLT will be achieved only when a critical mass of the ecosystem participates.

Bain say DLT is likely to have a negative effect on both
the revenues and proﬁts of clearinghouses and custodians (see Figure 4).
Across the board, market participants will need to adjust
to falling industrywide cost structures and new uses of
reference data and analytics. Those ﬁrms able to reduce
their own costs and develop better reference data ahead
of the curve should gain signiﬁcant advantages that
can be translated into near-term proﬁtability, enabling
them to pay down their investments. Over time, they
should have the ability to gain share as parts of the
industry consolidate.

The most valuable DLT innovations can’t be developed
in isolation; they require collaboration among participants, exchanges and regulators. Along the way,
there will be winners and losers, generating friction
and conﬂict. With so many participants involved across
so many jurisdictions and asset classes, the adoption
process will be messy and piecemeal—and this is the
heart of the challenge.

As ﬁnancial markets evolve with respect to DLT, companies will face game-theory-type decisions. If they promote
the early adoption of DLT across the ecosystem, they may
beneﬁt, but they may also end up disrupting their own
economics and competitive positions. Yet if they’re slow

As executives develop a strategy for DLT, they may want
to keep in mind the 18th-century adage popularized by
Benjamin Franklin: “We must, indeed, all hang together, or most assuredly we shall all hang separately.” Going
it alone on DLT can be expensive and risky. It may
lead the way on utilities. The Monetary Authority of
Singapore, for example, in addition to the KYC utility
initiative, is sponsoring the development of open
Application Program Interface (API) guidelines for the
ﬁnancial sector that will help encourage the formation
of utilities. In larger, more complex and more unbundled markets, by contrast, early DLT innovation is likely
to develop in pockets, such as corporate actions and
OTC products, as third parties ﬁnd niches where they
can make the ecosystem more efﬁcient.

make more sense to share the costs as well as the beneﬁts
through industry utilities. They can be run by market
participants themselves or outsourced to a technology
company or other third-party providers.
IT vendors and business-process outsourcing ﬁrms
(BPOs) are pushing ahead to help clients use DLT to
address market inefﬁciencies. IBM, for example, as part
of its work with the Linux Foundation’s Hyperledger
project, has teamed up with the Japan Exchange Group
to test DLT applications in low-volume securities trading.
Broadridge, in addition to its proxy effort, is working on
various DLT projects in securities lending and processing
and collaborating with ﬁntech ﬁrms through its minority
stake in Digital Asset Holdings (DAH) and participation in the Hyperledger Project. Thomson Reuters, IHS
Markit, Capco (part of FIS) and a multibank working
group organized by blockchain provider Axoni have
successfully tested blockchain technology and smart
contracts to manage afﬁrmations and post-trade lifecycle
processing for OTC equity swaps.

Getting ready for DLT
One way or another, ﬁrms that want to reap the beneﬁts
of DLT will have to make signiﬁcant changes to their
processes, policies and IT architecture. Leading ﬁnancial
ﬁrms around the world have already embarked on major
efforts to overhaul their IT systems to make them ready
for digital. As part of their efforts to modernize their
IT, these companies are taking some of the preparatory
steps that will be necessary for DLT. These moves may
put them years ahead of rivals who have not made as
much progress in addressing legacy issues.

Service and infrastructure providers are working to help
ﬁrms migrate their current processes to more efﬁcient,
DLT-enabled operating models. However, even if these
third-party solutions can help mutualize part of the investments in infrastructure, the transition will not be
trivial and represents one of the biggest obstacles to
widespread DLT adoption. In most cases, legacy and DLT
processes will need to run in parallel during a migration
period—at least across some asset classes, processes
and geographies.

Even though there is as yet no set timetable for when clear
standards and regulations on the use of DLT in ﬁnancial
services will be developed, ﬁrms can take steps now to
get their IT systems and processes ready. For example,
they can develop an end-to-end IT security framework
that will work with a technology as disruptive as DLT.
Test labs and trial use cases are particularly valuable for
learning about the security challenges of DLT, and thirdparty providers can provide meaningful assistance.

In highly competitive markets, banks and other participants whose proﬁts are already under pressure will
often resist investing in a technology with beneﬁts still
unproven. Given that reluctance, the leading DLT disrupters are likely to be the big IT vendors and BPO
providers, along with blockchain technology companies such as Axoni, R3 and DAH, which are able to
mutualize development and implementation costs
across participants.

Another aspect of getting IT ready for DLT is open
APIs, which will be critical to successful adoption of
many blockchain and smart contract protocols. The
European Union, for instance, will require banks to
have open APIs for some functions as early as 2018.
Many questions remain unresolved, including how the
eventual role of digital ﬁat currencies will be included,
how ledgers will be managed and which cases could
require an administrator to have the right to amend
them. Open APIs have the potential to radically shift
the dynamics of how ﬁrms interact with customers

Centralized and integrated markets, where there are a
relatively small number of major competitors, may
a vertically and horizontally integrated market infrastructure? Finally, the fundamental strategic questions
need to include an assessment of DLT impacts on cost
structure, weighed against the development of new
products and enhancements of reference data.

and with each other. The pace of preparation has been
uneven, with some ﬁrms adapting their processes and
operating models much faster than others.

Based on the answers to questions like these, ﬁrms can
devise customized strategies for different locations, asset
classes and activities. They can evaluate their options
along a continuum, ranging from DLT investments
that are internal or fairly independent to those that
depend heavily on the cooperation of other participants in the ecosystem.

Whether a company prospers or ﬂounders in the DLTdominated markets of the future will depend, in large
measure, on strategic decisions it makes today. The
emerging leaders in this nascent technology take a systematic top-down and bottom-up approach to building
a roadmap. They carefully tailor their focus based on
who they are (e.g., bank, securities ﬁrm, asset manager
or exchange), their size and position in the market, what
kind of assets they handle, which clients they serve and
the jurisdictions in which they do business.

Firms have four basic strategic options regarding individual DLT use cases: become a leader in innovation;
be a fast follower; watch, wait and prepare; or opt out
altogether (see Figure 5).

As they develop a roadmap, ﬁrms evaluate potential
scenarios for how different markets will evolve, in the
context of each market’s current structure. Is the market
consolidated or fragmented? How innovative and proactive is the regulator? Does the local exchange operate

Take the example of a bank operating in a smaller, integrated and centralized market, such as Australia or
Brazil. The bank could decide to prioritize KYC use
where they operate. By taking a more strategic approach
during the evolution of this new technology, they’ll be
able to tune out the hype and focus on deﬁning their role
in an evolving ﬁnancial ecosystem. Those ﬁrms that are
less systematic and more shortsighted are likely to see
their businesses disrupted as they become less competitive. The winners will be those that push the pace
of change, rather than resist it.

cases, helping to form an industrywide utility, perhaps
operated by a third-party provider. The bank could also
be an early advocate for tokenization of syndicated loans,
which would help bring more consistency, speed and
liquidity to the market. Tokenization, which uses DLT
to embed transaction and ownership information onto
the asset, can increase efﬁciency and decrease costs. The
firm could also prioritize application of DLT to OTC
swap contracts that have a small set of counterparties.
In other areas of cash securities trading, clearing and settlement, the bank could choose to be a fast follower, ready
to move as the positions of exchanges and regulators take
shape. Some participants in these types of markets are
already considering the idea of merging local custodians to
form a joint-venture utility in advance of DLT disruption.

Taking a strategic approach to DLT
The data informing a ﬁ rm’s decision on where,
when and how to use DLT across use cases should
ﬂow from the bottom up, but the process should be
managed from the top down. Priorities need to be set
strategically by top management and not left to percolate up from researchers in innovation labs. Once a
ﬁrm comes up with a roadmap, it should deﬁne a DLTreadiness posture. Many of these priorities will be noregret investments—namely, steps that stand to beneﬁt
the ﬁrm regardless of the pace or shape of DLT adoption.
These no-regret moves include modernizing IT architecture; strengthening the framework for dealing with
utilities, BPOs and other third parties; and evaluating
outsourcing opportunities.
As a ﬁrm follows the roadmap it has created, it will
need to monitor signposts and be prepared to shift
speeds and make adjustments based on regulatory evolution, moves by competitors and shifts in technology.
In an arena marked by uncertainty, proactive ﬂexibility
will be key.
Those market participants who win in DLT will spend
less energy on excuses for inaction and more on developing a strategic and longer-term approach, focused on
driving toward a more efﬁcient ecosystem and plotting a
course consistent with who they are, what they do.Shared Ambit ion, True Results
Bain & Company is the management consulting ﬁrm that the world’s business leaders come
to when they want results.
Bain advises clients on strategy, operations, technology, organization, private equity and mergers and acquisitions.
We develop practical, customized insights that clients act on and transfer skills that make change stick. Founded
in 1973, Bain has 53 ofﬁces in 34 countries, and our deep expertise and client roster cross every industry and
economic sector. Our clients have outperformed the stock market 4 to 1.

What sets us apart
We believe a consulting ﬁrm should be more than an adviser. So we put ourselves in our clients’ shoes, selling
outcomes, not projects. We align our incentives with our clients’ by linking our fees to their results and collaborate
to unlock the full potential of their business. Our Results Delivery® process builds our clients’ capabilities, and
our True North values mean we do the right thing for our clients, people and communities—always.