This white paper describes planned functionality but not necessarily the current state of Blockfreight™


This day now marks two revolutions in freight, 60 years apart. The first was in
1956 with the launch Malcom McLean’s shipping container introducing the era of modern
container shipping.2 On April 26th, 2016 we launched Blockfreight™ the blockchain of
global freight introducing the era of distributed automation, audit and settlement.
The genesis block of a new era for the digital security, trust, authentication, record keeping
and chain of custody data associated with each movement of global freight.
Where the introduction of shipping containers reduced costs and increased the speed of
international trade3 , so too will transaction containers of data on the Blockfreight™ network.

Blockfreight™ is an open network blockchain allowing stakeholders to have access to an
advanced global ledger and just like the ISO 668 container before it, this is a global trade
optimisation technology.
The Blockfreight™ network solves the inefficiency and variability in the data associated with
each and every movement of container freight.

Value add applications on top of our stack. Built by individuals with permissionless,
innovation or by companies and stakeholder development teams and independent
software vendors (ISVs) who build a businesses on top of the Blockfreight™ network.
The Blockfreight™ blockchain of global freight.

Built on the example of the Bitcoin peer-to-peer electronic cash system, the core prior art
example of the practical embodiment of an openly participatory network and blockchain.
Where Bitcoin is deliberately designed and well suited to the application of peer-to-peer
money/electronic cash. Blockfreight™ deliberately designed and well suited to the needs of
the international shipping of cargo freight.
In an open blockchain such as Blockfreight™ stakeholders participate in the scaling of the
network. This participation is in the form of scaling the data security and management of the
application stack by participating in the validation and distribution of its content.

Blockfreight™ begins life as a research and development project. The past year was spent on
developing the system design and researching options for the underlying technology stack
through commercial research and development by ​
Blockfreight R&D (Australia) resulting in the
Blockfreight™ Open Source (MIT) project. 
The codebase posted at Github is Open Source (MIT) licensed for all network participants and
developers within the freight community to collaborate on and communicate around. If you are
interested in developing on Blockfreight™ network simply email.

Blockfreight Inc
The Blockfreight™ network fee, anti-spam measure is based on the
software access token. ​Blockfreight Inc manages the licensing of sales of BLOCKFREIGHT.XCP
software access tokens. The availability of​​
BLOCKFREIGHT.XCP is commercially managed
support the business and early token sales will be made available to interested parties at a
discount on the standard full retail price of USD $1 / BLOCKFREIGHT.XCP.
The Blockfreight™ network is open by design and open by participation in the network’s
rules of governance which are set by the market demands and practical realities of freight
as expressed by validator nodes in consensus voting on network for rule adoption and
changes.
In an open blockchain such as Blockfreight™ stakeholders participate in the scaling of
the network. This participation is in the form of scaling the data security andmanagement of the application stack by participating in the validation and distribution
of its content.

Blockfreight™ Token Sales
Token sales can be conducted by the company or any licensee or agent. The Blockfreight™
[BFT:XCP] tokens | Open of availability commenced Jun 1, 2016.

The Blockfreight™ [BFT:XCP] tokens are the network fee to put a transaction onto the blockchain.
BLOCKFREIGHT.XCP is an asset on the Counterparty platform which is built on the Bitcoin digital
currency network.

Blockfreight Inc will license sales of Blockfreight™ token.

Many exchanges exist around the world where Blockfreight™ [ BFT:XCP ] tokens may be
offered or exchanged for Bitcoin, Dollars, Euro, Yuan (RMB) or Yen. (Secondary market).

Validators on the network may be closed or open to requests via web based web APIs

Many companies and applications may be layered on the Blockfreight™ network and
blockchain. This app economy will serve the industry and consumers.
Partner Networks
A merkle hash of the Bitcoin network is included in the Blockfreight™ blockchain, on
average every six (6) blocks.

Partner platforms & SaaS
Software designed for industry and consumers can grow on the Blockfreight™ blockchain.
The Blockfreight™ blockchain does not mine but rather relies on a peer-network of
bonded-stake validators which also act as network nodes. Nodes participate in voting
network rules into consensus. Validator bond stake into the network and will be entitled to
receive a share of network fee.

The Blockfreight™ blockchain transaction (TX) is defined within the JSON ruleset for the
network available and published at our GitHub account.

The Blockfreight™ transaction (TX) may reference an ethereum smart contract.

The Blockfreight™ network is a peer-to-peer gossip network for broadcasting and
transmitting unconfirmed transactions (TX) and transfer of Blockfreight™ blockchain blocks.

Inter Planetary File System (IPFS) is a permanent file system to reference any store of
transaction binary data.

An overview of the Blockfreight™ network components:

Act as nodes5 , validate transactions, vote on rules, provide API services
Application: ​
Defines TX rules-set [Blockfreight™ reference client available for download at
https://blockfreight.com/download​
Distributed in OSX, Windows Server and LINUX installs.
Blockchain: ​
Distributed ledger of all valid and included TX

Blockfreight™ is preceded by a significant body work in the technology space. Most notably
as a practical example and application of
network systems using proof-of-work to provide a level of Byzantine fault tolerant within a
consensus network. The Bitcoin blockchain and digital currency is a fundamental building
block and network primitive of the Blockfreight™ network.
After the release and operation of the Bitcoin network an extension to the electronic cash
application for Bitcoin was created by Counterparty6 in 2014 in the form of an open assets
distributed financial exchange platform. The Blockfreight™ token (Blockfreight™ network
fee) is a asset issued on the Counterparty protocol.Another project adding utility in the form of a platform for distributed execution of
applications (contracts) is the Ethereum7 network introduced by Vitalik Buterin in 2013. The
early specifications and network development work was undertaken in 2014 with the
support of a crowdfunding token sale in August of that same year. By early 2015 the test
network was in release and the initial Frontier release was launched by July. By 2016 the
network is in Homestead release with a live smart-contracting platform which has met with
strong interest and attracted an active and engaged community of both developer and
commercial interest. The progress on delivery of a stable environment affords inclusion of
an Ethereum based smart-contracts layer within the Blockfreight™ specification so as to
allow Blockfreight™ to reference applications (contracts) running on the Ethereum network.
In order to draw on the relative strengths of these platforms (Bitcoin network, Counterparty
protocol and Ethereum network) the design of the Blockfreight™ blockchain of global freight
requires flexibility and the ability to define the network specific rules and data structures.
We sought to employ a modular ruleset and to ensure we allow the protocol to evolve over
time. These attributes were offered in our selection of Tendermint8 . The Tendermint project
has been the core technology underpinning Eris Industries consensus layer9 .
One of the goals of Blockfreight™ is to define a standard for blockchain freight data.
Specifically drawing upon the ANSI EDI Standards10 for data exchange and the work of GS1
ASN11 around standards for Bill of Lading payload. It is envisaged that industry participation
in standards definition, potentially including application to ISO standardisation should form
part of the remit for this project. Our aim is to consult with standards making bodies to
ensure wide adoption and clear definition of the Blockfreight™ protocol is achieved.

It is proposed that with the introduction of Blockfreight™ as the blockchain of global freight
we will witness and enable a number of application and services for the global supply chain
to be built on top of the network which allow a new era of efficiencies through automation
of markets and resource allocation to be introduced. These applications around automation
and efficiency may take full advantage smart-contracts afforded by the Blockfreight™
network.
The data within the Blockfreight™ blockchain reflects the agreed common state which
attains network consensus and thereby serves as an incontrovertible record.
Blockfreight™ is smart contract enabled and smart contract controlled. Development of
participation rules to address security, the governance framework & governance systems is
the core challenge for the development team and network participants during the evolution
of Blockfreight™ network.

A vital piece of the economic bedrock of the Blockfreight™ network is the inclusion of a
network fee. A Blockfreight™ token [BFT:XCP] is required for each TX included in the chain.
Absent this charge, a “Free” or no charge systems give rise to an incentive for capturing
end user data for analytics, targeting and resale and encourages closed systems of
centralised control. By contrast the Blockfreight™ blockchain is an open network operated
by peers in a distributed consensus model with payload data available exclusively to parties
to a transaction.
Another core benefits of a paid network is that it provides a clearly defined revenue stream
to support the operational costs of consumables and infrastructure, development and
allows for sponsorship and coordination of a community of innovators to work on scaling
the APIs and network features of the Blockfreight™ network over time.
While it is true that a participatory architecture reduces cost where the community of users
participate in the scaling of the architecture and fabric of the network there still needs to be
a way to address the needs of support, development and advocacy functions through time
in a sustainable way.

Like the pyramid fabric in this structure of the image above, one key characteristic of a
blockchains are the interlocking and mathematically (cryptographic) signed data sets form
an integrity structure acting as the self-evidence of structural validity as measured by the
ruleset applied to them and as determined by the signing parties assuming shared
consensus around specific rulesets.
With Blockfreight™ the blockchain of global freight we unlock the opportunity for new and
innovative applications serving the needs of the global supply chain to emerge. Delivering a
robust open platform on which to built automation, audit and market based systems.
Blockfeight Inc will actively invest in early-stage startups through the Blockfreight
Innovation Fund (BIF) to seed development of interesting, impactful and scalable use-case
applications of Blockfreight™ network.

A validator on the Blockfreight™ network is also a node. Providing transaction
review, validation and transmission to peers.
The ruleset of the network is set by the network participants in a round of voting.
These consensus rules form the basis of validation of transaction and allowing (or
denying) them entry to the Blockfreight™ blockchain.
A blockchain of global freight allows reliance on the record of account as an
immutable digital record. This unlocks the opportunity for value added applications
such as performance based smart-contracts and chain of custody record
managment and compliance systems to be built.

Tendermint allows for 10k TX/sec with a block rate as high as 1
block/sec. We should be able to accommodate immediate and future needs. Moving
to commercial implementation will afford more opportunity for empirical testing
metrics.
Does it need Bitcoin? ​
Yes. Both for the network fee [BLOCKFREIGHT.XCP] which is
a Counterparty asset, and for the merkle root chain hashing (on average every 10
Bitcoin blocks) providing audit locking and validation for chain-of-custody
chain-of-record data sets. Openstack permissionless.
Is it Open Source?​
Yes. We release all code under an Open Source (MIT) license.
What data goes into a TX?​
The primary payload of a Blockfreight™ transaction is a
an electronic Bill of Lading (BoL). This is a document generated by a shipping line
whose purpose is to document ownership and facilitate transfer of ownership
between seller and buyer. It is one of the most important commercial documents. It
is by definition tied to payment.
Why a BoL?​
The BoL document is accepted as proof of ownership by banks and
facilitates payment settlement. For example a swap of BoL is done by banks in the
Letter of Credit (LoC), Documents against Payment (DoP), or TT against copy of
documents in more trusted transactions.
Who are likely to form the interested parties of a consensus block? ​
The three
parties who might require an improved solution are buyers (Walmart), sellers
(Li&Fung), and banks (HSBC). The solution (platform) is to create a middleware that
allows those parties to interact. They will demand enterprise standards based
software.
Why not build on a private Ethereum blockchain running on Azure to integrate
with R3’s 42 banks, and Project ConsenSys (Deloitte) at same time seek buy in
from logistics industry? T
​here is no barrier to our code being transferred into a
project like this and we will support any ISV in the space choosing to experiment or
build a solution with Etherium at it's core. Blockfreight™ is chaining to the Bitcoin
blockchain at it's core.