Encryption has been used as a method of protecting computer privacy since 1977. Secret
communication plays an increasing role in organizations especially banking, industry, commerce,
telecommunication etc. The basic idea of encryption is to modify the network traffic in such a
way that its content can be reconstructed only by a legal recipient. This has been central to the
setting up of secure systems such as Virtual Private Networks by establishing encrypted data
tunnels trough the public Internet. (A general Classification of Encryption systems is shown in
Appendix A)
The three-fold goal of network security is to protect confidentiality maintain integrity and
assure availability. (David Argles, 2005, Cisco Systems 2004, p5, Dieter Gollman 2004, p5,
Tanenbaum and van Steen, 2002, p415).
Organizations have been subject to a variety of attacks revealing network weaknesses at every
level. Each of the vulnerabilities of the system can be best seen in terms of their main weaknesses
at the individual level in the OSI model as shown below. The vulnerabilities are further described
in Appendix B.
Most network weaknesses have been shown to involve human error or malice (Gary Schneider
2006) rather than technological issues, and for this reason Security policies (Cisco 2004 p158)
have risen to the fore in the operation of companies and agencies (Appendix C shows trends
driving Network Security in Industry) in order to enforce basic standards such as rotating
passwords and confidentiality etc. (See Appendix D for details of the content of modern security
policies).
The increasing use of computer networks in organisations brings an increase in risk to the
organisational data assets from substitution, modification, theft, corruption and destruction. (For
recently discovered network vulnerabilities see Appendix E). Organisations need to arm
themselves against attack, particularly on publicly exposed websites (Web security issues are
listed in Appendix F) and consequential loss with effective security measures that counteract
those threats and protect their system’s vulnerabilities. Recent developments in security defence
are shown in Appendices G and H.

Current developments in encryption methods have moved towards the realm of atomic physics
and involve the use of Quantum cryptography. While public-key cryptography relies on the
computational difficulty factorizing large integers, (Appendix I summarises digital signatures/
Public Keys) quantum cryptography relies on the laws of quantum mechanics. This provides a
secure method for transmitting a one time pad (secure key) over the network using quantum
mechanical principles first explained by Einstein, Poldalsky and Rosen (EPR) in 1939. This is
based on the idea that two photons given off in a single interaction will always be oppositely
polarised. The strange quirk of quantum mechanics adds to this that by measuring the
polarisation state of any photon you change its orientation. By measuring the orientation of a
linked photon the orientation of the other photon is correspondingly changed at speeds faster than
the speed of light no matter how far apart they are. This provides the mechanism for securely
transmitting information from A to B using the EPR principle. (Ekert, A 1995).
Information is encoded in a pair of photons in such a way that any effort to monitor them
necessarily disturbs them by some detectable means. This arises because of Heisenberg’s
uncertainty principle which maintains that certain pairs of physical properties, such as a photon’s
polarization, (e.g. rectilinear (vertical and horizontal) and diagonal (at 45° and 135°), cannot be
measured without disturbing the other. This happens no matter how far apart the particles may be
at the time and thus enables long-distance quantum key distribution. In this way entangled photon
states are used to encode the bits and the information defining the key only "comes into being"
after measurements performed by Alice and Bob.

The advantage of this system is that in Quantum Cryptography, the traditional man-in-the-middle
attack is impossible due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. If there is any interception of the
stream of photons, they will be altered and the link will be destroyed. However this would not
prevent a denial of service type attack by physically severing the connection. Despite this the
communication is still secure and the essence of the message cannot be decoded. (Ekert, A,
2005)
This method is moving out of development into commercial practice. Quantum cryptography
devices are already on the market from a few vendors (ID Quantique or MagiQ.) and looks like
replacing such protocols as Diffie-Hellman key exchange in some areas. Id Quantique (2005)
have a white paper describing “how the deployment of quantum cryptography can help an
organization to close loopholes in its information security architecture and reduce its
vulnerability to cyber crime.”
However the cost of the needed equipment, dedicated fiber optic line, the requirement to trust the
equipment vendor, and the lack of a demonstrated threat to existing key exchange protocols all
stacks against quantum cryptography at the moment.
Encryption and chaos theory
An even newer method of encryption published in Nature recently (Nature, Volume 438, Number
7066, pp298, 17 November 2005) shows that protecting data security and confidentiality need not
involve complex technologies such as quantum encryption. Edward Lorenz’s, 1972 chaos theory
has been adapted to provide almost unbreakable encryption methods. Lorenz started his
investigation into chaos theory by declaring that the “flapping of a butterfly’s wing in Brazil
could set up a tornado in Texas”.
His mathematical representation of the unpredictability of systems has led to the idea of hiding
messages in chaos. The idea is to encode data on top of a carrier wave composed of chaotic laser
oscillations. These can be received by a system that matches the exact pattern of chaos used to
encode the message. The process involves two matched lasers, the first to encode the signal
message and the second identical laser to decode it. By using coordinated feedback, the laser is
pushed into overdrive producing a chaotic mix of frequencies. The feasibility of this was first
demonstrated in 1998 by van Wiggeren and Roy (Science, Vol 279, pp1198). More recently a
team in Athens have shown that chaotically encrypted messages can be passed over standard
telecom company cables up to a distance of a 120 km.
Figure 2 shows the message being added by the modulator to the chaotic light from the
transmitting diode laser. This is unreadable until it is fed back into an identical diode laser
producing the same chaotic signal. 
The theoretical basis behind chaos cryptography involves the application of non-linear
mathematics which generates a transformation of the original text as follows:
First the plain text C is converted into a series of numbers; these are then transformed by a
function φ that represents the chaos property of the dynamical laser system. Encryption is
performed by repeating the transformation n times.

In order to intercept any message an eavesdropper would have to have exactly the right
equipment. First they would need an optical coupler to tap into the chaotic light source. Next a
duplicate of the of laser that constructed the message is needed. Finally they would need to findthe same operating conditions and feedback control as the sender. Alternatively, if they tried to
crack the code with brute force the high bit rates would require the transmission to be recorded to
picosecond precision which is nearly impossible. In addition to that digitising the data stream
would further distort the analogue signal creating further problems.
The implication for organizations is that almost perfect encryption can be used by telecom
companies with a minimal change to the existing networks. Wide area networks and VPNs could
be offered chaotic encryption to ensure confidentiality. The effect of this would be considerable.
Banks could use it to back up their financial data and businesses could set up their own hacker
proof private networks. In addition Government agencies and security services maybe the first to
adopt this. However it is likely that the effects could be far reaching providing encryption for all
telephone calls and cell phone signals as well as for sending secure signals to re-program
satellites. The routine encryption of phone calls is
something that civil liberty campaigners would welcome
while government agencies would not.
Compared with Quantum cryptography chaotic
encryption is much faster. The former is a fairly slow
process but chaotic cryptography can send data at around
2GBps which is typical of speeds required in standard
optical telecommunications (New Scientist, vol.188,
No256.pp34). However, quantum cryptography is
inherently more secure because any attempts to listen in
disrupt the delicate quantum states which will make the
message unreadable. Chaotic cryptography does not have
the same resistance to eavesdropping. Furthermore a
recent paper by Kevin Short (Physical review letters, vol
83 pp 5389) has shown that chaotic cryptograms are all
breakable in principle though very difficult to do in
practice.

“Encryption does not protect against destruction of data or interruption of communication”
(D.Argles, 2005)
A perfect encryption system will not solve all network/computer vulnerabilities. It will not
prevent attacks on the physical layer where sabotage and natural disasters can occur. Nor will it
prevent reconnaissance and broadcast storms at the data link layer. However encryption starts to
become relevant at the network layer and above where the IP protocol can be made more secure
against intrusion, packet sniffing etc. It would not protect against denial of service attacks. Where
encryption will make the biggest difference is at session and presentation layers to enable the
sharing of completely secure data streams. This will make the business to business connections
over intranets and extranets more secure. An Organisation could offer chaotic encryption on
dedicated networks to secure financial and commercially sensitive data. The implementation of
quantum cryptography methods would further ensure that eavesdropping attempts would carry an
instant alert thus preventing man in the middle attacks. However quantum cryptography isdifficult to implement because the construction of the states is exceedingly difficult requiring an
atom by atom preparation affecting any serious bandwidths use limiting data flow. This problem
is not shared by the chaos encryption methods and ultimately this may prove to be the more
practical of the two. However from an Organisation’s point of view the data encryption is not so
secure nor is intrusion detection guaranteed.
The goal of total security is one that would probably not be welcomed by a number of agencies.
Top of this list would be Government agencies who monitor the flow of information not only
within email but also around the internet in various ways. They have devoted a considerable
number of resources to eavesdropping for such concerns as anti terrorism and defence. Should an
unbreakable encryption algorithm be invented then this area would be the first to outlaw it. For
years the US Government prevented the sale of encryption programs greater than 128bit to
anywhere outside its shores. In addition the whole of the encryption software producing sector
would be put out of business resulting in the loss of 12 billion dollars of revenue per year and
high unemployment and retraining costs.
It may be questionable whether the main beneficiaries of a perfect encryption security system
would be legitimate organisations or those on the darker side of society including terrorists, drug
traffickers, espionage, organised crime etc. Some might therefore wonder whether perfect
security is a goal worth seeking.
Encryptions systems can be classified either according to the encryption algorithm used or
according to the method key distribution.

A stream cipher system hides the plain-text by changing the bits of it in a
random-like way. An interceptor, who does not know the key, will not
know which bits have been changed. An ideal stream cipher would use a
physical (true) random number generator as key generator but since its
output cannot be reproduced, decipherment would be impossible.
Whole blocks of bits are treated simultaneously. A cipher-text block can
be deciphered to any combination of plain-text bits or to as many
combinations as there are keys. Commonly used block ciphers include
DES, IDEA, FEAL, etc.

Traditional cryptography requires that the sender and receiver of a
message have the same secret key: the sender, to encrypt the message;
the receiver to decrypt the cipher. This is known as secret key
cryptography. The problem is passing the secret key from the sender to
the receiver without anyone else finding out.

The public key cryptography was invented in 1976 by W.Diffie and
M.Hellman. In this system, each person gets a pair of keys, called the
public key and private key. Each person's public key is published while
the private key is kept secret. All communications involve only public key,
and no private key is even transmitted. Example - RSA (Rivest, Shamir,
Adelman, 1977).

Most security incidents occur because system administrators have not implemented a consistent
security policy that benefits the organisation in a number of ways.
In practice the control of user identity for enterprises networks is performed by routers, switches,
VPNs, firewalls, DSL, VOIP, network devices enabled by TACACS+ and RADIUS.
A number of authentication protocols have been established for use on insecure computer
networks. 
The subject can be any user or device while the object is typically a file or a resource. The
reference monitor acts as a gateway policeman to ensure that only the right users have access to
the appropriate resources. The most well known security device is the Firewall, which is a system
that enforces an access control policy between two or more networks. These can range from
dedicated appliances with integrated IOS (Internet Operating Systems) designed to provide
enterprise level security for companies, to small personal software firewalls designed to protect
the users PC such as zone labs, Norton.
Networks are secured through the use of access control lists (ACLs), which are used to filter and
secure the network traffic. This is done by controlling whether routed or switched packets are
forwarded or blocked. Each packet is examined by the router or switch and the decision whether
to forward or drop the packet is based on the information supplied within the ACL.
Accounting
This function will keep log files that detail the various transactions of the user. The whole
process of AAA is usually dedicated to a particular server. One such system is the CiscoWorks
VPN/Security Management Solution which allows the configuring, monitoring and auditing of
VPNs, Firewalls, IDS sensors via a Web Browser.
Accounting will also be concerned with an intrusion detection system, which audits host log files
and notifies network Managers when an external process tries to modify a system file in a
forbidden way. Cisco also provides an advanced form of IDS for the Cisco Security Agent at
enterprise level.
As VOIP continues to grow and become a dominant method of communication we can expect
this to become the prime target for hackers. The ability to send spam telephone messages to
millions of VOIP telephones at no cost might see an explosion of audible junk mail with a
consequent need to employ call filtering and VOIP security. Skype, which has reached
downloads of over 60m, (30% by businesses) has recently had two security holes identified.
(www.computerworld.com, 27th October 2005). Both involve overflow errors which would
enable attackers to execute any code in the system compromised or crash the system. Skype is
particularly vulnerable to attack because it allows users to establish a direct connection and it is
“port agile” e.g. if it finds a port is blocked it will search for an open one and as a result will
make a connection 99 out of a 100 even behind a fire wall or a NAT “As a result, Skype could
provide a backdoor entry into otherwise secure networks for Trojans, worms and viruses.”
Computerworld Oct. 2005
Cisco Router Holes
Another recent vulnerability has been found in Cisco routers (ZDNET 2005) Cisco confirmed
the existence of some serious vulnerabilities when Michael Lynn warned about when he
demonstrated the ability to hack in to Cisco routers back in July. In response, Cisco issued this
advisory warning all Cisco customers to upgrade their routers with the latest IOS. Cisco has also
recently suffered from the publication by a group calling itself the Evil Scientists of a tool to
reveal the saved passwords that reside inside the Cisco VPN Client. In addition they have also
published exactly how the stored keys are encrypted. (Loeb, L. 2005)
Recent Developments in Network Defence
Network defence depends upon packet filtering and Access Control Lists (ACL). System
administrators filter packets using ACLs on both inbound and outbound traffic. These are held on
the routers at the perimeter of the network and reduce network threats while allowing legitimate
traffic to pass. The very latest version of Cisco IOS software includes context based access
control called CBAC which allows the setting of audit trails, global timeouts, port ton application
mapping, defining and applying inspection rules, testing and verifying the packets.

Up until 2004 one of the most useful tools in the security armoury was the intrusion detection
system IDS. However the limitation of this were clear insofar as it was only effective once an
attack had already been made and been successful. Since that time the latest Generation of
intrusion prevention firewalls IPS have come into their own. The Gartner report 2003, declaring
the death of IDS although premature herald the way for such products as the Cisco Security
Agent management system CSA (Northcutt, 2005, p276).
This is a file and directory integrity checker that accompanies Linux installation disks. (Cisco
2004 p788 -792) Its purpose is to check the files and directories don’t contain errors and have not
been damaged by a hacker. Tripwire works by creating a database of signatures for all files on the
system. It compares new signatures with old ones on the regular basis to determine discrepancies
exist. There are many ways to authenticate users in the Linux system the best being determined
by the kind of server being used. For a remote access or telnet server secure remote passwords
SRP can be used or open SSH. If it’s a web of FTP server open SSL authentication should be
used.
Another recent development relates to IBM’s Assured Execution Environment (AXE) project
which is designed to police every program run on the system and denies access to everything
which is not specifically authorised. This turns on its head the standard approach that the
computer decides what needs to be run. AXE prohibits all code from running unless it’s been
preconfigured into a special format. This effectively gives each machine its own unique operating
system determined by the user’s need making it impossible for any viruses, worms of Trojans to
run.
This approach has been patented by IBM as AXE runtime software which is loaded into the OS
kernel upon boot-up.
“Users or administrators could use a variety of techniques, including encryption, to
ensure that unauthorized software could not be run without their permission. They could
also use Axe to make sure that certain programs were run only on specific machines or
even use Axe techniques to make data unreadable, to keep Word or PowerPoint
documents away from prying eyes.” Computerworld Oct 2005
A further recent development is the increasing use of biometric data to establish identity. This has
involved a variety of methods including the scanning of fingerprints, irises, ears facial
characteristics. Recent development also include writing pads to collect signatures that also detect
the form and pressure of the writing, retinal scanners to read the pattern of blood vessels at the
back of the eye, palm readers that scan the whole hand rather than a single fingerprint or read the
pattern of veins on the back of the hand.(G.Schneider 2006) The German Federal Government
has recently declared that from 2007 all passports will contain the subject’s fingerprints for
authentication. Sat 1 News 1st Nov. 2005-11-01. Issues here involve the reliability of the
recognition processes which at present technology levels are not sufficient to guarantee a high
enough success rate.
However not all see Biometrics as the best way forward. Peter Gutman (2204) of Auckland
University has indicated that biometrics is fraught with a number of problems which still need to
be addressed. His paper “Why Biometrics is not a Panacea” provides the technical background
for the effectiveness of the technology that you'll never find in any vendor sales literature, and
documents its less-than-stellar track record in the field.
It is never-the-less probable that Biometrics has a bright future if only we look far enough ahead.
This is likely to involve the simultaneous measurement of a number of personal features “on the
fly” as you walk through a portal, cross correlated to enable an ID fix with eventual absolute
accuracy. When this is accomplished identity will be established and verified within a few
seconds of entering any security sensitive or commercial premises allowing transparent cashless
financial transactions to take place without the exchange of a signature or even a credit card and
or ensuring the right person operates the right computer.