Licences and approvals are not assured in all jurisdictions
CRO Protocol Labs (“Crypto.com”) intends to operate in full compliance with
applicable laws and regulations and use its best endeavours to obtain the
necessary licences and approvals. Regulatory licences and/or approvals are
likely to be required in a number of relevant jurisdictions in which relevant
activities may take place. This means that the development and roll-out of
all the initiatives described in this whitepaper are not guaranteed. It is not
possible to guarantee, and no person makes any representations, warranties
or assurances, that any such licences or approvals will be obtained within
a particular timeframe or at all. As such, the initiatives described in this
whitepaper may not be available in certain jurisdictions, or at all. This could
require restructuring of these initiatives and/or its unavailability in all or certain
respects. In addition, the development of any initiatives is intended to be
implemented in stages. During certain stages of development, the project may
rely on relationships with certain licensed third party entities. If these entities
are no longer properly licensed in the relevant jurisdiction, this will impact the
ability of Crypto.com to rely on the services of that party.
No advice
This whitepaper does not constitute any investment advice, financial
advice, trading advice or recommendation by Crypto.com, its affiliates, or
its respective officers, directors, managers, employees, agents, advisors or
consultants on the merits of purchasing CRO tokens nor should it be relied
upon in connection with any other contract or purchasing decision.
Not a sale of security
This whitepaper does not constitute a prospectus or financial service offering
document and is not an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any
security, investment products, regulated products or financial instruments in
any jurisdiction. CRO tokens are not being structured or sold as securities in
Crypto.com. Owners of CRO tokens are not entitled to any rights in Crypto.
com or any of its affiliates, including any equity, shares, units, royalties to
capital, profit, returns or income in Crypto.com or any other company or
intellectual property associated with Crypto.com.

No representations or warranties have been made to the recipient of
this whitepaper or its advisers as to the accuracy or completeness of the
information, statements, opinions or matters (express or implied) arising
out of, contained in or derived from this whitepaper or any omission from
this document or of any other written or oral information or opinions
provided now or in the future to any interested party or their advisers. The
CRO tokens, as envisaged in this whitepaper, are under development and
are being constantly updated, including but not limited to key governance
and technical features. If and when the CRO tokens are completed, they
may differ significantly from the description set out in this whitepaper. No
representation or warranty is given as to the achievement or reasonableness
of any plans, future projections or prospects and nothing in this document is
or should be relied upon as a promise or representation as to the future. To the
fullest extent possible, all liability for any loss or damage of whatsoever kind
(whether foreseeable or not and whether or not Crypto.com has been advised
of the possibility of such loss or damage) which may arise from any person
acting on any information and opinions contained in this whitepaper or any
information which is made available in connection with any further enquiries,
notwithstanding any negligence, default or lack of care, is disclaimed.
Third party data
This whitepaper contains data and references obtained from third party
sources. Whilst the management believes that these data are accurate
and reliable, they have not been subject to independent audit, verification,
or analysis by any professional legal, accounting, engineering, or financial
advisors. There is no assurance as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness
of the data.
Translations
This whitepaper and related materials are issued in English. Any translation is
for reference purposes only and is not certified by any person. No assurance
can be made as to the accuracy and completeness of any translations. If there
is any inconsistency between a translation and the English version of this
whitepaper, the English version shall prevail.
This whitepaper must not be taken or transmitted to any jurisdiction where
distribution or dissemination of this whitepaper is prohibited or restricted.
Views of Crypto.com
The views and opinions expressed in this whitepaper are those of Crypto.
com and do not reflect the official policy or position of any government,
quasi-government, authority or public body (including but not limited to any
regulatory body) in any jurisdiction. This whitepaper has not been reviewed
by any regulatory authority.
Third party references
References in this whitepaper to specific companies, networks and/or
potential use cases are for illustrative purposes only. The use of any company
and/or platform names and trademarks does not imply any affiliation with, or
recommendation or endorsement of/by, any of those parties.
All references to ‘dollars’, USD or ‘$’ are references to the United States Dollars
unless otherwise stated.
Graphics
All graphics included in this whitepaper are for illustrative purposes only. In
particular, graphics with price references do not translate into actual pricing
information.
Risk statements
Purchasing CRO tokens involves substantial risk and may lead to a loss of a
substantial or entire amount of the money involved. Prior to purchasing CRO
tokens, you should carefully assess and take into account the risks, including
those listed in any other documentation.
A purchaser should not purchase CRO tokens for speculative or investment
purposes. Purchasers should only purchase CRO tokens if they fully
understand the nature of the CRO tokens and accept the risks inherent to the
CRO tokens.
Cryptographic tokens may be subject to expropriation and/or theft; hackers
or other malicious groups or organizations may attempt to interfere with our
system/network in various ways, including malware attacks, denial of service
attacks, consensus-based attacks, Sybil attacks, smurfing, and spoofing which
may result in the loss of your cryptographic tokens or the loss of your ability
to access or control your cryptographic tokens. In such event, there may be no
remedy, and holders of cryptographic tokens are not guaranteed any remedy,
refund, or compensation.
The regulatory status of cryptographic tokens and digital assets is currently
unsettled, varies among jurisdictions and subject to significant uncertainty. It
is possible that in the future, certain laws, regulations, policies or rules relating
to cryptographic tokens, digital assets, blockchain technology, or blockchain
applications may be implemented which may directly or indirectly affect or
restrict cryptographic token holders’ right to acquire, own, hold, sell, convert,
trade, or use cryptographic tokens.
The uncertainty in tax legislation relating to cryptographic tokens and
digital assets may expose cryptographic token holders to tax consequences
associated with the use or trading of cryptographic token.
Digital assets and related products and services carry significant risks.
Potential purchasers should take into account all of the above and assess the
nature of, and their own appetite for, relevant risks independently and consult
their advisers before making any decisions.
Professional advice
You should consult a lawyer, accountant, tax professional and/or any other
professional advisors as necessary prior to determining whether to purchase
CRO tokens.
This whitepaper contains certain forward-looking statements regarding
the business we operate that are based on the belief of Crypto.com as well
as certain assumptions made by and information available to Crypto.com
Forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to significant risks
and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements may involve estimates and assumptions and
are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors beyond our control and
prediction. Accordingly, these factors could cause actual results or outcomes
that differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of which such
statement is made, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking
statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such
statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Crypto.com was founded on the belief that it is your basic human right to
control your money, data and identity. We believe that decentralization holds
the key to empowering people around the world to better safeguard their
rights, and that we are helping the world move in this direction by accelerating
the transition to adopting cryptocurrency.

Mission:
Accelerate the World’s Transition to Cryptocurrency
We believe that by accelerating the transition to adopting cryptocurrency, we
can help people globally to:
Control their money - ability to access their funds anytime and anywhere;
	Safeguard their data - cryptography-secured blockchain makes datatempering highly unlikely;
Protect their identity - no central entity can compromise your identity.

Vision:
Cryptocurrency in Every WalletTM.
In our journey to achieve this vision, we are:
Redefining how money is being moved, spent and invested, and
	Democratizing blockchain technology by designing beautiful, simple and
useful financial services that have a lasting, positive impact on
people’s lives.

Our strategy is to leverage payment solutions
as the primary tool for driving adoption
and user acquisition, while building trading
and financial services solutions as the major
sources of revenue. This strategy creates and
self-sustains a virtuous cycle: payment channels
bring users onto the platform, whereas trading
and financial services generate revenue that can
be reinvested into payment.
Our product solutions across three verticals are building up a sustainable ecosystem
that serves our mission: Accelerate the World’s Transition to Cryptocurrency.

Commitment to Security & Compliance
Building trust is the cornerstone of our commitment to our customers we believe that security and compliance are the foundations of achieving
mainstream cryptocurrency adoption.
Crypto.com is the first cryptocurrency company in the world to have ISO/IEC
27001:2013, ISO/IEC 27701:2019, PCI:DSS 3.2.1 Level 1 compliance.
ISO/IEC 27701:2019 Certification is the “Gold Standard”
for privacy risk management (the audit was conducted
by SGS, a leading inspection verification and certification
company recognized globally).
ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Certification is the “Gold Standard”
for information security management (the audit was led
by SGS, a global leader in Testing, Inspection
and Certification).
PCI:DSS (Payment Card Industry: Data Security Standard)
outlines a set of strict requirements set by the payment
card industry and is designed to ensure that organizations
which process, store or transmit credit card data maintain
a highly secure environment, and uphold the highest data
security and privacy standards. Level 1 is the highest level
of certification.
We have completed a detailed security
assessment, which included external
penetration testing, threat modeling through
to risk control reviews. In addition to our own
extensive analysis, we have also engaged the
Kudelski Blockchain Security Center to conduct a thorough external security
test and full threat modeling exercise to ensure the completeness of their
security controls.
We have also been rated “Adaptive (Tier 4)” – the highest level possible for
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity
Framework and the latest NIST Privacy Framework, developed by the US
Department of Commerce. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework, originally
released in 2014, provides a framework of security guidance for how private
sector organizations can develop, assess and improve their ability to identify,
protect, detect, respond and recover from cyber attacks.
All of users’ cryptocurrencies are held offline in cold storage. Crypto.com
has secured a total of USD 360M in cold storage insurance against physical
damage or destruction, and third-party theft.
For more information on our security & compliance standards,
please visit our website.

Support of Fiat Institutions
In our journey to achieve the vision of Cryptocurrency in Every WalletTM, we
are also actively enlisting the support of fiat institutions and helping them to
include or involve cryptocurrency in their offerings in a compliant, secure &
cost-effective manner.
For example, one of the first products we have launched is the Visa Card as
an approved VISA program manager. Cardholders can conveniently spend &
withdraw the fiat equivalent of their cryptocurrency online or offline at 50+
millions of VISA-approved merchants worldwide.
As another case in point, our native blockchain solution - Crypto.org Chain
- not only caters to retail users who want to spend any crypto anywhere
for free, but also speaks to fiat institutions who face cryptocurrency-related
challenges. For instance, Crypto.org Chain will help fiat institutions in areas
such as:
safe custody of cryptocurrencies;
control of price volatilities of cryptocurrencies;
timely and cost-efficient on-chain / off-chain settlement;
management & support of multiple cryptocurrencies.

Below is an overview of the products we offer along three verticals:
1. Payment - Crypto.com Pay, Visa Card
2. Trading - Crypto.com App, Crypto.com Exchange
3. Financial Services - Decentralized Finance Products, Crypto Earn,
Crypto Credit
Crypto.org Chain, our native blockchain solution, is the key tech that powers
the payment pillar and will later support our trading and financial services
products. In particular, the Crypto.org Chain blockchain protocol is the
backbone behind Crypto.com Pay, our mobile payment solution.
Crypto.com Coin (CRO) - the native token of Chain - will power all of our
products and offer rich token utility across different use cases (see section on
Token Utility below).

Crypto.com Pay is a mobile payment service that lets you pay in and/or
receive cryptocurrency anywhere, anytime for free. This product is powered
by Crypto.org Chain, our native blockchain solution (see section below for
details).
Crypto.com Pay delivers the following value propositions:
Merchants pay minimal fees for settlements in crypto or fiat,
saving up to 80% on fees versus typical payment processors;
Low volatility & low risk offered by letting merchants accept
cryptocurrency and get paid in their preferred crypto or fiat currency;
Easy to set up, view and manage payments in a matter of minutes;
For developers. By developers. We’ve made it easy to start accepting
cryptocurrencies with just a few lines of code.
Pay Checkout lets customers check out and pay in crypto and/ or merchants
to receive crypto as an additional payment option. It delivers the following
benefits for merchants and customers:
Pay Checkout is easy and intuitive to use for merchants and customers:
The customer pays in crypto by choosing “Crypto.com Pay” on the
checkout page at the merchant’s.
The customer is presented with a QR code and scans to pay - either
with Crypto.com App or with a supported decentralized wallet.
The customer’s account is debited.
The merchant receives payment instantly in fiat currency or
cryptocurrency of their choice in their business account with Crypto.com.
On one hand, the customer experience is
designed to be effortless, and each payment
can be completed with a few taps on their
mobile phone. On the other hand, merchants
can implement Crypto.com Pay with a few
lines of code from our SDK and have flexibility
in accepting both fiat and cryptocurrencies.
Our team is working to expand the list of merchants that integrate with
Crypto.com Pay, with our selected partners below:

With Pay Gift Cards, Crypto.com App users can shop at
worldwide prominent brands with crypto and get cashback in
CRO with each purchase.
We offer gift cards from brands in different categories including
airlines, hotels, games, fashion, food and beverage, general retail,
telecommunication, gas and diesel, entertainment, taxi services,
and grocery. Users can find renowned brands such as iTunes,
Google Play, Amazon, Starbucks, Nike etc.1 with more brands
around the world being added to the catalogue continuously.
Pay Airtime Top-Up
Pay Airtime is a feature that enables Crypto.com App users
to pay for mobile airtime top-up via Crypto.com Pay in
cryptocurrencies such as BTC, ETH, LTC and CRO.
With a few clicks in the Crypto.com App, users can top up
airtime for mobile numbers offered by over 340 prepaid
mobile network operators, including T-Mobile, Vodafone,
Airtel, Orange, Verizon & others, in over 100 countries. Users
also have options to top up their mobile phone or for the
others, anytime and anywhere.
Pay Your Friends allows users to pay back their friends in
crypto and earn rewards by doing so. Users can pay their
friends in any cryptocurrency for free. Alternatively, if a user
pays friends back in CRO tokens, the sender will be rewarded
with up to 10% cashback on this transaction.2
What we want to achieve with Pay Your Friends is to give our
users a reason to bring all their friends into cryptocurrency. The
user experience is instantaneous & free - the more users get a
chance to experience it, the closer we get to global adoption.
The availability of gift card brands varies by jurisdiction. Crypto.com does not have any direct partnership
with the brands/merchants offered.

Crypto.org Chain is the next-generation public
blockchain that enables transactions worldwide
between people and businesses. It is also the
technology that powers Crypto.com Pay, our
mobile payment solution (see section above),
and will be used to revolutionize the world of
payments, DeFi and NFT.
Crypto.org Chain has the following key value propositions:
Secure: Fault-tolerant design making the Chain resilient and safe;
Instant & Low-Cost: Chain delivers Instant transaction confirmation
coupled with minimal fees;
Permissionless: Chain is an open-sourced project that welcomes any
party to join the network and/ or contribute to the code development.


To make payments in
cryptocurrency

generous cashback funded by the network
access (time): instant access to cryptocurrency
access (distribution): ability to spend cryptocurrency
directly from their customer crypto-exchange
account / wallet at millions of merchants, both
online or offline, without moving to fiat
reduced costs: zero processing fees;
business growth: acquire high quality customers


To receive payments in
cryptocurrency
with substantial spending power;
marketing: offer customers network-funded
discounts and demonstrate abilityto move with a
new trend
To settle between different
currencies

revenue: earn fees for activities performed

Crypto.org Chain Mainnet launched in March 2021, with Crypto.org Coin (CRO)
as its native currency.
Users can stake CRO in Crypto.com DeFi Wallet to join delegated proof-ofstake and earn yield accordingly.
To better share network information, Crypto.org Chain Explorer 2.0 was unveiled
together with a revamped Crypto.org Chain website. By allowing anyone to
review the Croeseid Testnet on-chain activity, including node staking and
governance, the new Crypto.org Chain Explorer marks an important milestone on
our road to mainnet and supports our decentralized and permission-less vision
for the network.
We have decided to choose Tendermint - a byzantine fault tolerant (BFT)
consensus protocol3 - as the consensus engine for Crypto.org Chain. We are
also an active contributor to the Tendermint Rust-abci library.
The decision to use Tendermint was based on the following reasons among
others:
During our internal testing, we have obtained throughputs of
transactions-per-second (TPS) reaching hundreds;
An earlier version of Tendermint was rigorously tested by Jepsen.io,
which sets it apart from newly-proposed algorithms that are yet to
be thoroughly tested;
Track record of adoption: Tendermint has been in continuous
development since 2014, and has been adopted by several high-profile
projects4;
Broad use cases: Unlike some blockchain systems that are confined
to consortium networks, Tendermint caters to both permissioned and
public network;
Flexibility: Tendermint has a fairly modular architecture, and offers
flexibility on which and how applications are developed on top of it.

Crypto.org Chain is being built with complete decentralization in mind - Chain
is a permissionless network, meaning that anyone can participate in the
network if they wish to do so. Crypto.org Chain is open-source on Github with
documentation here.
In the long-term, Crypto.org Chain will be able to run without CRO Protocol
Labs entities as we develop the key pieces of architecture and technology to
enable it:
Trust-less mechanisms to increase access to transaction validation nodes,
Built-in and proven security protocols to keep bad actors at bay,
	Balanced incentives for valued added contributors and disincentives for
free-riders,
	Upgradability and flexibility of the chain through community code
contributions.

No single authority server
controls the nodes, they all
have individual entity.

All the nodes are
connected under a
single authority

Blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies are relatively new concepts. Since
Bitcoin’s initial release in 2009, the awareness and acceptance of blockchain
& cryptocurrencies have been steadily on the rise. We are pleased to see
that crypto has received the interest and support of established institutions,
with recent news such as Facebook’s launch of its Libra project and Paypal’s
confirmation that it is developing cryptocurrency capabilities. We believe
that such favorable developments in the industry will continue to increase the
recognition of cryptocurrencies and fuel the growth of the industry.
On a related note, the accelerated experimentation of Central Bank Digital
Currencies (CBDCs) by governments around the world indicate a strong
interest in digital currencies as a whole. Our research & insights team have
supported The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) in a white paper titled
Digimentality —Fear and Favouring of Digital Currency, which outlines the
findings from our research on consumer attitudes towards digital currencies.
We have observed that 85% of survey respondents have owned, used or
heard of decentralized digital currency (such as a cryptocurrency), indicating
increased public awareness.

Another indicator on the potential of cryptocurrencies is the exponential
growth in the number of wallets. Bitcoin and Ethereum wallet creation have
experienced explosive growth (>10x) respectively from 2013 to 2015 and 2016
to 2018. We expect wallet creation growth to continue in the future but with
a significantly more moderate CAGR down to 30-40% in the later years. Our
research & insights team have used on-chain data to reach the estimate that
the Bitcoin & Ethereum wallet addresses map to around 66 million crypto
owners worldwide in 2020 (see this report for details on methodology), which
is a sizable user-base considering both networks are around or less than a
decade old at the time of the estimate.
Leveraging the Bitcoin/Ethereum wallet creation growth forecast, and
discounting users with multiple wallets as well as overlap between each
blockchain wallets, we expect crypto users to grow to 250 to 400 millions by
2025.
Based on historical growth of Bitcoin and Ethereum wallets (2:1 ratio in contribution) and decreasing
expected future growth down to 35% in the last year

Total Digital Payments segment expected to be $5+ trillion USD by 2022,
amongst which crypto payments could represent 2-3%7 of total payment
volume ($100-150 billion USD).
Based on historical growth of Bitcoin and Ethereum wallets (2:1 ratio in contribution) and decreasing
expected future growth down to 35% in the last year
The Digital Payments market segment is led by consumer transactions and includes payments for products
and services which are made over the Internet as well as mobile payments at point-of-sale (POS) via
smartphone applications.
Similar to the payment market penetration of the first mobile payment player entrant in a large market
after 4-5 years.
The Visa Card offers benefits that challenge the world’s best credit cards.
Users can apply for different tiers of VISA cards that offer different perks:
100% reimbursement of Netflix, Spotify, and
Amazon Primememberships, 
10% reimbursement of Airbnb and
Expedia expenses.


“Stake” or “Staking” means the holding of CRO in your Crypto.com App for 6 months.
CRO Cashback is paid in CRO token to your wallet in the Crypto.com App. Transactions on digital wallets, digital banking services, crypto
exchanges, stored value products, money remittance services are excluded from the CRO rewards program.
Once a user unstakes CRO, the benefits of each tier will be reduced (except for Airport lounge access). 

The Visa Card could be managed via the Crypto.com App (see section below
for details). In the app, users could complete card application, view card
details, track card spending records, receive eligible card rewards etc.,

Crypto.com Solutions - Trading
Crypto.com App
Value Proposition
Crypto.com App delivers the following value propositions:
A.One-stop shop to buy, sell, store, send & track track cryptocurrency in
a secure and convenient way with a few taps on their mobile phones;
B.The only place to buy crypto at true cost - Crypto.com’s proprietary
Vortex Trading Engine pools liquidity from major exchanges globally
and routes orders to them to ensure the Best Execution Price. Coupled
with our increasing coverage of fiat top-up channels and convenient
app interface, this makes Crypto.com App the best place to buy crypto.
Special promotion: The 3.5% credit/ debit card fee will be waived for
cryptocurrency purchases for all users until the end of September.

Users can buy crypto with their fiat wallets and/ or with a credit or debit card.
The Crypto.com App supports 7 fiat and 55 cryptocurrencies.
Users can send crypto to Crypto.com App users instantly without fees, or
withdraw crypto to external wallet addresses with minimal fixed fees.

Users can monitor 200+ coins at their fingertips in the coin tracking tab.
Metrics available include prices, volume, market cap, % change and more that
are refreshed frequently and up-to-date. The app also presents charts in dual
currencies (USD, BTC) and different time frames (8H, 1D, 1W, 3M, 6M).

The Crypto.com App enables users to apply for and manage their Visa Card
and enable spending of their cryptocurrency in the online and offline world
at more than 40 million VISA merchants worldwide. Supported app functions
include: Convert cryptocurrency into fiat ready for spending (including USD, EUR,
GBP, SGD, HKD, JPY, AUD), Enable card withdrawal, freeze/ unfreeze card
Upgrade card tier etc.
Crypto.com’s proprietary Vortex Liquidity Engine ensures that customers have
access to deep liquidity pools and best execution prices on the Crypto.com
Exchange. Retail & corporate users can trade on the exchange via the desktop
interface or via the exchange API.
Crypto.com Exchange supports trading pairs for cryptocurrencies with leading
market capitalization and volume such as BTC, ETH, LTC, USDC and more,
as well as CRO token - the native currency of Crypto.org Chain (see section
below for more details on the CRO token).
The fees on the exchange are based on trading volume and CRO staking. The
higher the volume and/ or the higher the amount of CRO staked, the lower the
trading fees. In addition, users enjoy trading fee discounts if they pay the fees
in CRO. Please refer to this webpage for our detailed fees & limits schedule.

Margin trading on the Crypto.com Exchange allows you to borrow
cryptocurrencies on Crypto.com Exchange to trade on the spot market.
Eligible users can use the margin loan as leverage to open a position that is
larger than the balance of your account.

The first derivatives product offered on Crypto.com Exchange is perpetuals.
Perpetuals enable traders to buy or sell the value of their ‘assets’, whereby the
underlying asset itself is never traded—allowing them to better manage risk.
Perpetuals do not expire or have a settlement date, and users can hold their
positions for as long as needed.

Crypto.com Lending allows you to borrow against your cryptocurrencies
without selling them. You can deposit them as collateral and take out crypto
loans to fulfill your financial needs, use for Margin Trading on the Crypto.com
Exchange, or hedge on other exchange platforms.

If you are an institutional user and require more flexible loan terms, you can
apply for Lending Pro on Crypto.com Lending. Once your application has
been approved, you can enjoy a higher borrowing limit and apply for loans
with customised terms when they are available.

The Syndicate is a discounted token offering platform on Crypto.com
Exchange, powered by the CRO token.
The Syndicate helps projects raise awareness and drive user education. The
listing project can provide an allocation of their own token for distribution on
the Crypto.com Exchange users with up to a 50% discount. All proceeds from
the sale are passed back to the projects. CRO holders receives priority token
allocation for these events.

Crypto.com Exchange can enjoy benefits provided by two types of staking
services. Rewards are offered on a flexible term - no “lock-up” is required. The
soft-staking maximum limit varies depending on the currency, and users
with more CRO staked on the Exchange are eligible for higher limits.

Crypto.com Exchange will continuously expand its product offerings for retail
& institutional users.
In addition, Crypto.com Exchange offers a stream of new-user promotional
campaigns. Promotions we have launched include 2% additional deposit bonus
(for first 30 days), 0% trading fees (for first 90 days) etc.

To take one more step towards letting users better safeguard their money,
data and identity, we have launched the Crypto.com DeFi Wallet, which is
a non-custodial wallet app that allows users to gain full ownership of their
private keys.
Crypto.com DeFi Wallet offers the following value propositions.
Note: Crypto.com DeFi Wallet (non-custodial) and Crypto.com App (custodial
- see section above) are two mobile applications that target different use
cases.
You have 100% control over your
crypto and your private keys

If crypto transfers are made within
Crypto.com ecosystem, you will not be
charged any fees

We do not require you to prove
your identity so risk of data branch
is lower

No major effect if you lose your private
keys or recovery phrase, easy to regrain
access again via our support team

You need to pay transaction fee
as the transactions are on-chain
and you have to wait for the
transaction to be confirmed

You need to prove your identity and
perform KYC (know your customer,
ID verification)

If you lose your recovery phrase,
you will not be able to access your
wallet and crypto

Your wallet is not fully decentralized as
Crypto.com is the wallet custodian

Crypto.com De-Fi Wallet is designed for all level of crypto users - beginners
will feel at ease as they are gently guided towards making their first
transaction, while experienced users will notice significant improvements
to common features found on other crypto wallets (in particular, backup
recovery phrase and sending/receiving crypto). The wallet supports BTC, ETH,
CRO, LTC, XLM, CRV, and TRU, with more tokens to be progressively added.
Users can have more than one wallet and change their wallet networks from
Mainnet to Ethereum Testnets in the Crypto.com DeFi Wallet App.

DeFi Swap is designed to be the best place to swap and farm DeFi coins at
the best available rate, leveraging proven and audited protocols, while offering
an outstanding incentive program powered by CRO.
Liquidity Providers (LPs) are generously incentivized for contributing to
liquidity pools with Triple Yield through:
Swap-fee Sharing for LPs;
CRO DeFi Yield for LPs who also stake CRO;
Bonus LP Yield for LPs of selected pools.
DeFi Swap follows a constant product formula, where the product of
the quantities of two tokens remain the same before and after a swap is
performed. The price slippage depends on the ratio and quantity of tokens in
the pool.
The DeFi Swap is a decentralized protocol deployed on the Ethereum
blockchain. Each transaction record such as on-chain deposits and
withdrawals are transparent on the network. The role of Crypto.com is as a
provider of technology by contributing to the development of the product.
Crypto.com is open-sourcing the core codebase and welcomes the input and
decentralized contributions from the community.
DeFi swap is integrated with the DeFi wallet allowing users to exchange
tokens directly in the DeFi Wallet app.
For more information about the DeFi Swap, please consult the DeFi Swap
whitepaper, and the DeFi Swap FAQ. Users can provide liquidity and / or swap
tokens via interacting directly with the DeFi Swap Web App.

Other than the products mentioned above, we have also launched DeFi Earn
that allows users to generate yield on their tokens and DeFi dashboard with
estimated gas costs.
In addition, we have a suite of decentralized products planned in our product
roadmap (see section above), including but are not limited to: decentralized
borrowing / lending services, decentralized card offerings etc. Some of
our offerings will be powered by Crypto.org Chain, a decentralized public
blockchain.
On a related note, our in-house Research & Insights team are publishing
articles & reports on decentralized finance (e.g., De-Fi landscape overview,
project deep-dives), which can be viewed online at this webpage. We are
continuously publishing more reports to the webpage which can be read by
anyone for free. Other than the free reports, Crypto.com Private members get
exclusive access to our proprietary monthly feature articles (see section on
Crypto.com Private for more details).
Crypto Earn is a product that lets users who want to capitalize on their holdings
while retaining ownership. Crypto Earn gives users the freedom to grow their
crypto assets and earn up to double-digit interest rates annually on different
cryptocurrencies.
Crypto Earn is offered within the Crypto.com App.
Users can deposit cryptocurrencies and earn interest. Supported deposit tokens
are shown in the picture below and more assets will be added regularly.

There are three holding term options for users to choose at the time of deposit:
Flexible holding term
1-month fixed term
3-month fixed term
Once the deposit is confirmed, interest will start to accrue immediately. Please
check the Crypto.com App for the latest rates. Users with CRO staked will
receive preferential interest rates.


Crypto Credit gives users spending power by enabling them to monetize their
crypto assets without the need to sell it.


Crypto Credit is offered within the Crypto.com App.
Users can deposit cryptocurrencies as collateral to borrow a crypto loan.
Supported collateral currencies include BTC, ETH, CRO, LTC, XLM, EOS,
ADA, ALGO, ATOM, VET, LINK, and WBTC, with more currencies to be added
progressively.

After depositing the required collateral, the user will receive the loan instantly
in their crypto wallet in the Crypto.com App. Supported loan currencies
include USDT, TUSD, USDC, PAX
Users with CRO staked will receive preferential loan interest rates. Please
check the Crypto.com App for the latest rate information.

Crypto.com NFT is a platform dedicated to delivering unique content from
popular artists, musicians, athletes, and sports:
Curated roster of mainstream and digital artists including: Aston Martin
Cognizant Formula OneTM, Axel Mansoor (the King Of The Clubhouse),
Bag Raiders, BossLogic, Boy George, Jonathan Monaghan with Nathan
Evans (of #1 single Sea Shanty ‘Wellerman’ fame), KCamp, Klarens Malluta
with Lionel Richie, KLOUD, Mr. Brainwash, OPUS, Snoop Dogg,
among others;
User-friendly NFT buying experience, allowing users to buy NFTs using
their credit or debit card;
Integration with Crypto.com Pay, offering users the ability to pay with over
20 cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Dogecoin.
User Experience
At launch, users will have the option to 1-click buy using their credit or debit
card or with cryptocurrency via Crypto.com Pay.
Collectors or fans will be able to acquire and trade (resell) NFTs through
the platform.

With its intuitive interface and country-specific tax calculation formulas,
Crypto.com Tax makes it easy to file complicated crypto taxes:
Full integration with popular exchanges & wallets and easy-to-use interface
that gets the job done in no time;
Entirely free services. No matter how many transactions you have in the
past years, we’ll handle the calculation for you at no cost, making us the
first free crypto tax product on the market;
Simple and intuitive interface, aiming to create the best user experience
when dealing with tax matters. All results are transparent for review prior
to getting your final results generated.
User Experience
Users can import crypto transaction records from supported exchanges
and wallets by uploading a CSV file, or using API synchronisation with major
platforms like the Crypto.com App.
In a matter of minutes, Crypto.com Tax is able to provide users with an
estimation of taxable gains/losses on relevant crypto transactions, which can
then be downloaded for tax filing.

Crypto.com Private is a package of premium rewards and benefits tailored for
our Obsidian, Rose Gold and Icy White VISA cardholders. This builds on our
existing benefits for these cardholders which include up to 8% cashback on all
spending, unlimited LoungeKey™ Airport Lounge Access with a guest, Airbnb
and Expedia rebates among other benefits (see section above on Visa Card
for detailed description on the card product).
Benefits for All Private Members
All Crypto.com Private Members will have access to a set of crypto-related
services:
OTC block trades of CRO
Priority access to research reports published by Crypto.com

Inheritance service i.e., assistance with estate handling related to Crypto.
com assets
Top industry events access (with priority access for Obsidian cardholders)
Priority customer service
VISA Card-Related Benefits
Icy White, Rose Gold and Obsidian cardholders will now enjoy:
Crypto Earn additional interest of 2% annually on fixed-term deposits
(paid in CRO; not applicable to CRO deposits);
Crypto Earn increased account limits of USD $2m for Obsidian and
USD$1m for Icy White/Frosted Rose Gold; US$0.5m for the remaining
card tiers;
Amazon Prime rebate of up to US$12.99/month in membership fees;
Welcome Pack with exclusive Crypto.com branded merchandise.
In addition, Obsidian cardholders will exclusively enjoy the private jet service
(special perks when travelling with our preferred private jet partner).


Our referral program provides some of the richest rewards ever seen in the
industry. 
All eligible Crypto.com App users can
participate in the referral program, with no
limits on the number of referrals. Bonuses
of the referral program are credited instantly - your referred friends can use
their sign-up bonus immediately after they make a valid transaction.
Crypto.com Exchange Referral Program
The Crypto.com Exchange referral program offers rewards to both eligible new
referred users and the referrers. New users that pass verification and stake a
certain amount of CRO are eligible to receive up to USD$25 equivalent in CRO.
Eligible referrers can receive even greater rewards in CRO.

We have an in-house Research & Insights team dedicated to publishing
articles, reports and research with the aims to educate more people about the
crypto space and establish thought leadership with insightful analysis. The
offerings of our research team include:
Crypto.com University (link here) - educational materials about
blockchain and cryptocurrencies, suitable for people who are new to the
industry and/ or are looking to level up their knowledge;
Crypto.com Research Hub (link here) - free, online repertoire where we
share our independent views on diverse topic suitable for audiences of
different levels of knowledge and/ or interest. We offer a wide range
of materials that cater to industry veterans, trading enthusiasts or new
joiners alike;
Crypto.com Private Feature Articles - Crypto.com Private members get
privileged access to our monthly feature articles, along with other exclusive
benefits (see the section on Crypto.com Private for more details).
Our research team conducts in-house research, as well as collaborates
with research partners on certain topics. For example, we supported The
Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) on a piece of research to dig deeper into
the general public’s behaviors and opinions around digital payments - such
as drivers, barriers and trust factors - and the evolution of a cashless future.
A new interactive digital currency hub is now being hosted on The Economist
(https://digitalcurrency.economist.com/) alongside a white paper titled
Digimentality —Fear and Favouring of Digital Currency, which outlines the
findings from our research on consumer attitudes towards digital currencies.

In March 2021, Crypto.com announced a multi-year partnership with Aston
Martin Cognizant Formula One Team™ to bring exclusive experiences and
opportunities to traders and F1 fans. The partnership brings together two
dynamic brands which share a passion for technology and speed, and
places Aston Martin Cognizant Formula One Team™ at the forefront of
cryptocurrency innovation.

In March 2021, Crypto.com announced a global partnership with Visa that also
includes principal membership in Visa’s network in Australia. The partnership
will advance Crypto.com’s ambition to accelerate the adoption of crypto
payment solutions around the world by expanding the reach of the
Crypto.com Visa Card. In addition, Crypto.com is announcing plans to roll out
fiat lending with crypto collateral via the Crypto.com Visa Card.
Having been granted Visa principal membership, Crypto.com will begin
direct-issuance of the Crypto.com Visa Card in Australia, allowing Crypto.com
to have a direct relationship with cardholders. Crypto.com has also started
offering virtual cards in Europe, allowing users to instantly start spending
without waiting for the physical card to be in-hand.

No pre-sale, no public sale, and no ICO
100% circulating supply, 100% decentralized
Focused on revolutionizing payments, DeFi and NFTs
(See section below for details on distribution & planned use)
Token ERC20 contract and daily distribution smart contract
were successfully audited by Quantstamp and Certik.

Token Distribution and Planned Use
In February 2021, Crypto.com announced updates to the CRO token
distribution, with the goal of 100% decentralization in preparation for Crypto.
org Mainnet launch.
Crypto.com has pledged to burn 70 billion CRO (reducing the total supply of
the token to 30 billion CRO), with the remaining 5.9 billion CRO to be used
as Mainnet block rewards for Chain validators and allocation to Particle B for
ecosystem development.

The Crypto.com Coin (CRO) token is the native token of Crypto.org Chain our next-generation public blockchain solution. CRO also powers the overall
Crypto.com ecosystem, with utility across payment, trading and financial
services use cases:

Crypto.com was founded and is being led by a team of seasoned management
with a proven track record and rich experience:
Formerly Vice President, Quantitative Trading at AP Capital Management
in Hong Kong, Weiyi led the development of an algorithmic trading
platform and managed the Asian market arbitrage portfolio. Prior
to that, Weiyi was Vice President of Electronic Market Making at
JP Morgan, where he led volatility trading strategy and arbitrage
strategy development in the automated market making business; and
Quantitative Trading Strategist of Equity Derivative Trading at Deutsche
Bank.
To support us on the path forward, we have invited industry-recognized
leaders to serve as our Board of Advisers, who bring a track record of success
and expertise in areas ranging from AI, trading technology, product to
operations and talent.